Dr. John Berry, the protagonist, is a pathologist working in Boston during the 1960s, a time when abortion was illegal in the United States. The story opens with an introduction of the various requirements and challenges of the medical profession during the era. Subsequently, Dr. Berry is notified that his friend, an obstetrician named Arthur Lee, has been accused of performing an illegal abortion that led to the death of Karen Randall, a prominent member of an established medical dynasty. The situation is further complicated by the fact that Lee is already well known amongst the medical community as an abortion provider and that Berry has in the past helped Lee disguise medical samples to hide the fact that Lee's dilation and curettage patients were pregnant. After visiting his friend in a jail cell, Berry sets out to prove Lee's innocence. Subsequently he investigates the personal life of the dead woman, creating an accurate portrait of her past, psychology, and character. During his search, which lasts several days vandals attack Lee's home. The protagonist's knowledge of medicine and law are helpful in overcoming various barriers in his search including a hostile police captain and bribes from the scion of the Randall family itself: Karen's father, a well-established (though mediocre) doctor. Eventually, with the aid of an unscrupulous African-American lawyer, Wilson, Berry is able to obtain solid evidence showing Karen Randall's uncle (who had already performed three previous abortions for her) to be the culprit. Nonetheless, Berry is troubled by this conclusion and is persuaded to continue his investigation despite Wilson's displeasure. Eventually, he discovers that Karen's drug dealing friends had performed the botched abortion, but Berry is attacked and sent to the hospital before he can reveal his discovery. Subsequently, Berry's attacker, Karen's African American boyfriend is also brought in an ambulance, dead after a fatal fall. The actual abortionist attempts to commit suicide. She is forced to confess in the hospital after being threatened with what she believes is an excruciatingly painful dose of Nalorphine (but is actually water). Berry continues to be suspicious about Karen's boyfriend's death, and ultimately forces one of his old friends and colleagues (the uncle of the woman who did Karen's abortion) to admit to his involvement before turning him in to the police. However, despite being proven innocent, Lee's reputation has been ruined, and he decides to move to California. Crichton then ends the novel with a postscript discussing the problems in the medical profession, including abortion. fr:Extrême Urgence it:In caso di necessità nl:A Case of Need ja: