Seventeen-year-old tomboy and anti-materialist Emerson Watts, forced by her mother, accompanies her sister, Frida, and her best friend, Christopher, to a Stark Mega store opening in So Ho, which is attended by the teen supermodel, Nikki Howard. In addition to Howard's celebrity presence there will be an appearance by British heartthrob, singer, and songwriter, Gabriel Luna. Frida has a crush on the musician. The event is protested, and one of the protesters shoots a plasma screen with a paint ball gun, snapping the wires. Emerson (Em for short) saves her sister from being hit by the plasma screen crashing down, and takes the hit herself. At the very moment, Nikki faints and goes brain-dead. A month later, Em finds herself in the hospital, trying to recall what had happened. She finds out she is in Nikki Howard's body when she is kidnapped by Lulu Collins, Nikki's best friend, and Brandon Stark, her on again off again boyfriend. She screams in the limo seeing that she is in Nikki Howard's body on the way to Nikki's loft. She tries to remember the events that went on during the last month, and Em finds out that not only did she die during the accident, but incidentally Nikki Howard had also suffered a fatality as well. Unknown to and without her permission, her brain is transplanted into Nikki's brain-dead body, due to the fact Nikki suffered from a fatal collapse at the same time Em got hit. In an effort to save Em, her parents had agreed to a controversial brain transplant surgery offered free by Stark Industries, on condition that Em continues Nikki's career as the face of Stark Industries. From then on, Em is forced to live the high life while concealing her real identity or be faced with the contract penalty of two million dollars. Em is forced to take on the role of Nikki Howard, all the while struggling with the fact that she does not have control over her life. She tries to let go of her tomboyish ways to take over the highly glamorous life that Nikki had lived. Although she is now dealing with Nikki's job, Nikki's friend Lulu and many boyfriends, she still fights to keep some of her old life by going back to school, also to face Christopher, on whom she has a secret crush. As Em follows through with Nikki's commitments (photo shoots, interviews, etc., not to mention continuing school at Tribeca Alternative High School), she realizes that the supermodel lifestyle is a lot harder than she perceived it to be. Em notices that her best friend Christopher, is now a broken mess after her death. She goes out of her way to try to talk to him, and try to let him realize that she is still alive in someone else' body, by leaving an important clue as stated early in the book. This part of the story ends with Em bringing Lulu to her family's house for dinner, Em learns that Lulu doesn't have a family and spends most of her time drinking and partying. When asked 'how does she know them,' Em answers, 'doesn't know where to begin.' Leaving an open space for the sequel.