August 1141 is sunny, hot, without rain in Shropshire. Half of southern England is cut off from the Abbey of St Peter and St Paul by the civil war between the imprisoned King Stephen and the besieged Empress Maud. Empress Maud is hoping to regain the support of Henry of Blois, but most doubt the canny bishop will side with her again after the failure of his legatine council. Rather he is building up his own stores at Wolvesey Castle in Winchester in case he is besieged, and rebuilding his alliance with his brother's wife Queen Matilda, now leading King Stephen's armies. Handing Brother Oswin to his term at the leper house at Saint Giles, Cadfael hears the first hints of the troubles at Winchester, meeting it in person on his way back to the Abbey. The Abbey of Hyde-Mead in Winchester has been laid waste by the fighting, scattering the surviving monks across the country. Brother Humilis and the mute, young Brother Fidelis are welcomed by the Abbey of Shrewsbury as refugees. Humilis tells the Abbot that he was born near Shrewsbury and wishes to see the old estates of his father. Cadfael recalls a nobleman called Godfrid Marescot, who joined the crusades sixteen years ago, taking men from his manor, and gained a reputation for great valour. He realizes that Humilis is Godfrid returned. Hugh Beringar notes that the man is clearly ill and likely not long for this world. Fidelis seems impressed with Humilis, dedicated to his care. One day Cadfael finds Humilis unable to move from pain. While treating Humilis, Cadfael discovers the severity of the wound from the Crusades, which has rendered him incapable of fathering children and likely to die soon. Cadfael learns that Fidelis joined the monastery when Humilis had just graduated from being a novice. Fidelis brought with him a written explanation of his desire to serve God and a small amount of money. Brother Urien, who recently joined the monastery after a failed marriage, makes a sexual advance towards the young novice Rhun, but is rejected. Rhun is thus aware of the troubled Brother Urien. Two days later, Rhun takes his vows as a novice monk, with a tonsure. Nicholas Harnage arrives on leave from the Queen's army (King Stephen's Queen, under FitzRobert) at Andover, where they have burnt the town, and the siege is at stalemate for the moment. He asks Brother Humilis for permission to propose marriage to Humphrey Cruce's daughter. Julian Cruce was betrothed to Humilis/Godfrid by arranged marriage when Godfrid left for the Crusades; she was but 5 years old, the last time he saw her. Nicholas was dispatched to tell her family that she was released from the engagement upon Godfrid's return from the Crusades, the only time Nicholas has met her. Humilis gladly gives his consent to Nicholas who leaves for the Cruce manor in the north of the shire to make his proposal of marriage three years after once meeting her. Julian's older brother, Reginald, tells Nicholas that Julian left to become a nun about a month after her engagement to Humilis was broken, and one month before her father died. She went to the convent at Wherwell, but Reginald has had no communication with her since she left. Disappointed, Nicholas returns to Shrewsbury Abbey with his news. In early September, a wool merchant brings word to Hugh Beringar that the Empress's forces made an attempt to open a supply line to Winchester but were put down by William of Ypres's forces. The Empress's men took refuge in Wherwell Abbey, which was fired in the fighting, soldiers and nuns both inside. Hugh informs Cadfael early the next morning; he rushes the news to Nicholas, who leaves quickly to learn if Julian is safe. Soon after this Brother Urien makes an advance towards Brother Fidelis. Fidelis rejects him. Nicholas fails to find Julian at Wherwell. He continues his search to Romsey Abbey, where the Prioress of Wherwell escaped. She informs him that Julian Cruce has never asked to enter the nunnery at Wherwell. Reeling from this news, Nicholas returns to Winchester, where he finds a battle underway. The Empress and her forces have broken out of the siege, marching out at dawn along the Stockbridge road, now pursued by the Queen's army. Three days later Nicholas reached Shrewsbury Abbey. He recounts his findings to Brother Humilis, and shares what he saw at Winchester, including news of the taking of Robert of Gloucester. The disappearance of Julian is the more mysterious since she was escorted to Wherwell by four trustworthy and well-armed servants who returned home safely afterwards. Nicholas again visits the manor at Lai to meet three of the men who escorted Julian to Wherwell. The three men reveal that on the last leg of the journey only one man, the forester Adam Heriet, since sent on military service, accompanied Julian. Reginald vows there will be restitution for whatever ill has befallen Julian, as his honor is now touched. A list of the valuables Julian took with her into the cloister is given to Nicholas to aid in his search. At the Abbey Nicholas and Reginald find Hugh and Cadfael discussing the war news brought by Nicholas. Fortunes turned at the rout of Winchester with the taking of the Empress's strongest ally by the Queen's army. The imprisoned King Stephen may yet be exchanged for Robert of Gloucester taken by the King's allies at Stockbridge, held in Rochester. In the rout, the Empress escaped with her life and her forces were scattered. Nicholas and Reginald ask Hugh to assist them as Sheriff. Hugh agrees to pursue Heriet, the last man to have seen Julian. Nicholas leaves to seek trace of the valuables, while Reginald heads home. Hugh finds Heriet at his brother in law's home and questions him. Heriet claims to have travelled with Julian to within a mile of the convent, but let her travel the last mile on her own at her own request. He has no knowledge of her in the three years since. Hugh returns to Shrewsbury with Heriet, who asks repeatedly for news of Julian. Heriet does recall Julian's happy expectation of her marriage to Godfrid, in her youth. Brother Humilis is very ill and has been taken to the infirmary where Brother Cadfael tends him. Hugh tells Humilis what he has learned and Heriet recounts his story. Heriet's story clashes with that of the other three men on the point of time: Heriet returned to them at sunset. Heriet claims to have used the extra hours to explore the city of Winchester. Heriet denies robbing and killing Julian, allowing himself to be taken into the sheriff's custody. Alone with Cadfael and Hugh, Brother Humilis asks about the valuables that disappeared with Julian. Hugh describes them in detail, with his word perfect memory. Brother Urien overhears part of their conversation and thinks that one of the items Hugh described, the cross sized for a neck chain, may be in the possession of Brother Fidelis who wears something on a chain around his neck. Brother Fidelis sturdily rejects Brother Urien's advances. Angered, Urien then pulls the chain to see what hangs on it. Urien gives Fidelis three days to reconsider, threatening to tell all if Fidelis does not do so, and leaves. Rhun is witness to Fidelis in distress. Rhun then suggests to Brother Edmund that Fidelis be allowed to have a cot in Brother Humilis's room. That night, Humilis wakes to discover his friend on the cot. Using a lamp to study his friend's face, he sees more than he expected. Visible on the pillow was an old ring on the chain around his neck. Thus did Brother Humilis learn the truth about his faithful companion. Humilis and Cadfael talk alone. Humilis asks Cadfael to protect Brother Fidelis after Humilis dies, to which Cadfael agrees. Cadfael says he guesses at what might Humilis must know, but will do his best. Humilis then asks that he and Fidelis visit the nearby manor where he, Humilis, was born. It is a risky journey by land, so Cadfael suggests the river, guided by a local expert. Cadfael gains the Abbott's approval for this scheme. Charged to arrange the journey, Cadfael visits at Beringar's town home, enlisting the assistance of Aline for his future plans, playing with his godson. When Hugh returns, Cadfael tells of the plan for Humilis. Then Cadfael recruits Madog and his skiff for the journey next day to Godfrid's manor, now held by his cousin, tenanted by longtime neighbors. Nicholas visits the Bishop of Winchester to seek some trace of the valuables that disappeared with the lady Julian. The Bishop lends his authority to help Nicholas question the churches, abbeys and merchantmen of the city. A merchant and his wife remember Adam Heriet well and describe him clearly as having sold them Julian's jewellery. Heriet claimed at the time that he was acting as a servant under orders and that the lady who owned the jewellery was dead. The jeweller's wife saw Heriet meet someone after the transaction, she thought a young, slim man. The wife of the jeweller received Julian's distinctive ring as a birthday gift and loans it to Nicholas to use to confront Adam Heriet. Humilis and Fidelis meet Madog for the journey to the manor where Humilis grew up. At the manor, Humilis speaks warmly to Fidelis of his gratitude and love for all the care in his last years. A storm threatens, and Humilis makes the choice to return rather than wait out the storm. The storm is furious and intense, ripping up a huge willow, setting it afire from lightning, falling to knock their skiff to pieces. Fidelis comes up for air, sees Humilis, holds him up. Madog takes Humilis to shore, tries to revive him, as Fidelis washes up alive at the same place. Realising there will be no reviving, Fidelis keens in deep pain. Nicholas reaches Shrewsbury as the storm breaks. He seeks out Hugh Beringar first at his home, then in the still heavy rain to the castle, and tells his news from Winchester. Madog arrives in Shrewsbury. He finds Cadfael alone at the mill. Relating how Humilis died in the river, he asks Cadfael how to deal with the fact uncovered in the disaster, surprising to Madog but not to Cadfael. Cadfael tells him that if anything has to be said, it should be that Fidelis died in the river with Humilis. Cadfael proceeds to Aline, who lets him know that Nicholas is returned. They proceed along the river with horses, Cadfael the more pressed wondering what news Nicholas has spread. Hugh and Nicholas question Adam Heriet with the evidence of the ring. They formally accuse Heriet of the lady Julian's murder. Heriet denies everything, when the news of river deaths interrupts the interrogation. Hugh and Nicholas leave to verify the news and offer what assistance they can. In the streets of Shrewsbury they see Brother Humilis's body being carried to the Abbey. At the Abbey Madog recounts the accident to Abbott Radulfus, who sorrowfully accepts all he says, including a promise to search for the other monk. Hugh Beringar notes Cadfael is absent from the scene. Returning home, Hugh is approached by his wife Aline with a story for him alone. Cadfael is finishing up the important business, and Hugh ought to relieve Heriet of the mistaken news said in front of him. Brother Humilis's funeral in Shrewsbury Abbey drew many, fitting for a man to be laid to rest in the Abbey transept. Reginald Cruce recalls another ring that meant more to his sister, the gift of Godfrid at the time of the engagement, a very old ring from his family. She wore it on a chain around her neck. None knew that this ring is what Godfrid saw just before his death, that told him the secret of Fidelis, who had not accepted his rejection three years earlier. Just after the ceremony, Sister Magdalene of Godric's Ford Benedictine cell arrives with a letter addressed to the Lord Sheriff, Hugh Beringar. Hugh reads the letter publicly, which is from the Lady Julian who says she is now at the nunnery at Polesworth. The letter says she had lived at Sopwell Priory by Saint Albans without taking vows, regrets the pain of the fears she was 'done to death for gain,' and asks that escort be sent to fetch her to Shrewsbury. Reginald is joyous at the news that his sister is alive and repentant of having wronged Adam Heriet, an honest man. Nicholas is stunned and pleased. Grieving his friend Fidelis, Brother Rhun visits the river side and finds Brother Urien in the same sorrow yet in despair. Urien speaks of making confession and facing retribution for what he did, but Rhun persuades him to keep Fidelis's secret between the two of them for the sake of Fidelis. Rhun has realised that Fidelis was in fact Julian Cruce, in many ways back from the dead. Two days later, lady Julian arrives for the Mass to be said in honor of the lost brothers, walking past the men she had lived among for weeks, unrecognized by them. Nicholas and Julian meet; in one glance, Nicholas recognises her as Fidelis, as do Rhun and Urien, though they tell no one else. Understanding the depth of her commitment to Brother Humilis, Nicholas decides to postpone his romantic pursuit of her until she has had time to mourn. Julian asks him to visit her at her brother's manor, it would be a kindness. She wore that very old ring on her finger, and was dressed just right by Aline and Sister Magdalene to hide the tonsure. Cadfael reflects on how scandalous it would have been to the order had the truth come out, and the damage spared Julian. Hugh reflects on Heriet's motives, devotion and actions, and Cadfael recalls his journey to Sister Magdalene's priory with Fidelis/Julian. Sister Magdalene notes that the letter she wrote was had no lies, if a few deceptions, and praises the wisdom of Julian's decision to pretend muteness, as one who cannot speak, cannot lie. The novel concludes by quoting from the solemnization of matrimony, taken from the Book of Common Prayer.