The novel centres on Glawen Clattuc, an intelligent, capable young man and a member of the Conservancy at Araminta Station. Although his status index number is rather high, Glawen hopes for Agency status. Glawen joins Bureau B, the department responsible for enforcing the laws of the Charter and quickly becomes embroiled in a plot to allow the Yips to take over Deucas (to the benefit—it is suspected—of several traitors at Araminta Station). The novel also describes Glawen's romance with the beautiful Sessily Veder and later with Wayness Tamm, daughter of the Conservator (that is, the leader of the Conservancy). Unfortunately, Sessily is kidnapped and brutally murdered and Glawen attempts to bring her murderers to justice. Her abduction may be linked to the above-mentioned plot. Meanwhile, Wayness has discovered a terrible secret which may destroy the Conservancy. She decides to return alone to Earth, where the original Charter is located, to see if her suspicions are justified. As part of his Bureau B activities, Glawen is ordered by Brodwyn Wook to join the Bold Lions (a boisterous drinking club for devil-may-care youths) and travel to Yipton with them on an annual jaunt. Glawen is to use the Bold Lions as cover to spy on the Yips and he is accompanied in this task by Kirdy Wook. Glawen and Kirdy discover that the Yips are secretly preparing flyers (flying vehicles) to further their plans to infiltrate Deucas. However, Kirdy is caught, held prisoner and tortured by the Yips. Only the greatest threats from Brodwyn Wook secure Kirdy's release and recovers in hospital. Although Kirdy recovers physically, his mind is severely affected and he nurtures a hatred for Glawen. Disconsolately, Glawen travels to a small island for a holiday. To his horror, he discovers that "parties" are being held on this island in which rich off-worlders are allowed to have sex with underage Yip girls who are then killed (profits of course going to Titus Pompo). Glawen reports back to Bureau B and an outraged Bodwyn Wook orders the arrest and severe punishment of all concerned. However, Bodwyn is not satisfied and feels that the organisers of these "parties" should be punished also. He sends Glawen on an off-world mission to discover the identity of the organisers and, to Glawen's horror, orders that Kirdy must accompany him. The deranged Kirdy quickly betrays Glawen who is imprisoned by a group of female religious fanatics who attempt to use him as a sex slave. It turns out these "nuns" were clients of the organising group and paid for the "parties" as part of their macabre religious ceremony/reproduction strategy. With the aid of the IPCC Glawen is finally able to escape and returns to Cadwal where he is confronted by Kirdy, who is finally identified as the murderer of Sessily Veder. Kirdy attempts to kill Glawen on a beach but loses the fight and drowns. Returning home, Glawen discovers that his father, Scharde, has been kidnapped.