In the opening scenes, in the Gaulish village inhabited by Asterix and his friends Chief Vitalstatistix is trying to give a speech, when he is interrupted by the bard Cacofonix, who is testing the acoustics of his new hut. This causes it to rain; a pivotal point in this comic. A small, dark-skinned man, Watziznehm the fakir suddenly falls from the sky. He had been brought off of his flying carpet by Cacofonix' downpour. Watziznehm explains that he is searching for a way to make it rain in his country, a kingdom in India because if it doesn't rain in 1001 hours, Princess Orinjade, daughter of Rajah Wotzit, will be executed as a sacrifice to the gods. This prophecy is actually part of an evil scheme by Grand Vizier Hoodunnit. Vitalstatistix agrees to send the rain-making Cacofonix to India, accompanied by Asterix, Obelix and Dogmatix. The group sets out slightly disgruntled, as Cacofonix is not allowed to sing and Obelix isn't allowed to bring a whole cart-load of roasting wild boar with him. The next day, they encounter the pirates. Obelix throws out all of the ship's booty on the grounds that it is just junk and not food. The captain hurriedly calls for all the food to be brought and the Gauls and the fakir leave with it, paying with just one small coin. Meanwhile Hoodunnit reveals to his henchman that if it doesn't rain he will have the Rajah executed, and then if it still doesn't rain it won't matter as he will be Rajah himself. The carpet flies over Rome, where the Gauls say hello to a feverish Julius Caesar, causing him to go into a further delirious state. Cacofonix insists on singing, to the point that Watziznehm jumps off the carpet in horror. Without a fakir to steer it, the carpet plummets into the sea, where they are picked up by a Greek merchant's ship. Watziznehm has fallen into a jug of wine. To sober him up, Cacofonix sings yet again, causing a storm and grounding the ship on a tiny island but Obelix and Asterix free the ship easily. After flying over Athens and Tyre, they enter another thunderstorm. A bolt of lightning strikes the carpet and Watziznehm is forced to make an emergency landing in a Persian village, where a carpet seller refuses to fix Watziznehm's or sell one of his own carpets. However, after saving the Persians from Scythian raiders, the Persian gives one of his carpets to the Gauls. The Gauls arrive in India with exactly 30 hours, 30 minutes and 30 seconds left in which to save Orinjade, but Cacofonix has lost his voice during the journey and cannot sing. Rajah Wotzit's doctors proclaim that to regain his voice, Cacofonix must take an overnight bath in elephant milk. The Gauls take Cacofonix to elephant-man Howdoo's home and set up the bath, leaving him to sit in it. The evil Hoodunnit, however, sends his henchmen to kidnap the bard, and take him to an ancient elephant meeting-place and graveyard, and leave him to the elephants. When Watziznehm, Asterix and Obelix set out to pick up the bard, they are stopped by Owzat, Hoodunnit's fakir sidekick. While Watziznehm and Owzat shoot curses at each other, Asterix and Obelix escape and go to Howdoo's, only to find that he has disappeared. Dogmatix picks up the smell of elephant milk, and after being held up by tigers, monkeys and a rhinoceros, not to mention Hoodunnit's henchmen, they arrive at the elephant graveyard to find Cacofonix alive and well; his elephant-milk smell led the elephants to believe that he was one of them. They return quickly with the help of Watziznehm, who has finally defeated Owzat. Asterix sky-punches Orinjade's executioner into the air and saves her in the nick of time. Hoodunnit is defeated. Cacofonix can speak again because of the dose of magic potion he had taken, and sings Singin' in the Rain at the considerable top of his lungs, causing it to rain at last. At the victory feast in the palace, Obelix muses that now their fellow villagers might be having their traditional banquet, this time without him. And back in the village, some of the Gauls begin to express their desire to have the bard back, since it hasn't been raining for some time now. This includes Fulliautomatix the blacksmith who usually uses his hammer to knock Cacofonix out, but now appears to be missing him.