The novel begins with us meeting Emerson Watts as she is on a model shoot in St. Johns, clinging onto a rock cliff over a group of nurse sharks, for a commercial for Stark Brand deodorant. She suddenly falls into the water and is rescued by her on-and-off "boyfriend" Brandon Stark (the son of her boss Robert Stark, C.E.O of mega-corporation "Stark Enterprises"). Later on at the hotel, Em gets a call from her apartment man saying a man keeps coming to her door. Em finds out the man that keeps coming to the door was Nikki's brother, Steven, there giving her the news that their mother (i.e. Nikki'and Steven's mother) has gone missing. Em tries to convince Steven she doesn't know anything, but barely gets him to believe her "amnesia" story. Lulu, attracted Steven, asks him to stay with them at the loft. During his time at the loft, Em notices that they have been bugged and begins to watch what she says and does there and in other places around the house. Shortly after all this drama, Em decided to go see her real family (who are being bugged too), and comes to the realization that she can't really go back to her old life after she realizes that she couldn't see her grandmother that Christmas. As she left her family's apartment in tears and was greeted by Christopher, who asked her to come up to his apartment (which was also being bugged) and began to talk with her about his plans to take down Stark Enterprises for "killing" Em. Em also considers that Christopher must have loved Em after she sees a picture of her in his bedroom. He also says that he can help her find Nikki's mother if Em can get him an account name and password for a Stark Employee. Em reluctantly agrees to help. Em and several other models from Stark Enterprises are having a rehearsal for the Stark Angels fashion show for the upcoming New Year's Eve. While the models in their pairs of wings are lining up in a queue to get on stage, a model named Veronica who was standing in front of Em in the queue warns Em to stop sending romantic emails to her boyfriend Justin Bay. Em tells her that she has not been emailing to Justin, saying that it was another girl using her name, but Veronica doesn't believe her. As Em completes her run and heads for the end of the catwalk, she trips over a pile of feathers seemingly ripped off a pair of Stark Angel wings, believing that it was Veronica who set it up. After the accident Em was taken to Dr Higgins' office and had a discussion about parts of her body that are in pain. Em says she is fine but while the doctor was typing her user name and password on a Stark Employee login site, Em sees it to give both the user name and password to Christopher. After that, at the annual party that Nikki and Lulu hold, Christopher turns up unexpectedly and asks to speak to Nikki (Em) in private. They then go into her room, where Christopher then starts kissing her. Between a kiss, he mutters the word "Em". When it finally dawns on Em what he just said, she asks him and he says that he knows its really her as he saw her document when he was hacking into the Stark mainframe. He also confesses that he had always loved her and is regretful that it took her death for him to finally see it. Brandon bursts into the room and sees Christopher with Em but tells Em that her sister Frida (who wasn't invited but eventually invites herself to the party wearing inappropriate clothing)is vomiting and had been lied to by Justin Bay about alcohol being in the fruit punch; Gabriel Luna is trying to help her. Em comes up to Justin and asks for his cellphone but Justin refuses to. With some help from Gabriel, Christopher chokes Justin so he will give his cellphone to Em. Em and Christopher go through Justin's messages and finds Nikki Howard's romantic message, asking Felix to track down the person who wrote this. Felix tracks the message to the house of Dr. Jonathan Fong, a Stark neurosurgeon who lives in Westchester using Brandon's car. After they go there, they realize that Nikki's mom and Nikki herself (but in another person's body) is alive. Dr. Fong then explains why he did all those things and even says that he has been hiding Nikki and her mom there otherwise Stark will kill all the 3 of them. Soon, Brandon enters the house, after being asleep in the car. He threatens Em and tells her she must now be his girlfriend, and must help him destroy his fathers career, while telling Em to break up with Christopher. She unwillingly does so, and he takes Em, Nikki, and Mrs. Howard to his summer house, where they will be safe from Stark.