Chloe realises that Nick loves her. She decides to be his girlfriend, but Sinéad is first. Ms. Sanderson tells her that Nick will get bored of her and break up. Chloe can't make her change her mind, so she gives up, because she's got other problems. Chloe's mother is still a victim of house violence. When she gets an offer to interview a famous actress, she disagrees, because new film is about wives, who are beat by their own husbands. In the end she decides to live Edward and move to London with Chloe. Jasmin still goes out with Sanjay. Unfortunately, when she discovers that, he's got a chance to move to Beckedon high school in London, she's upset, because they won't see each other for a long time. Even though, she tells him to go there and try to win the scholarship. When he makes it, she's very happy. They engage after the exams. Meanwhile, Jasmin's mother is meeting one man. The girl suspects that, it's a romance. Luckily, this man is from gospel choir and he talks to Josephine about being in it. Next to Nick’s house a mysterious man, Mike Lovell appears. The boy tells him that Bowens don’t live in Leeds, because he thinks that Lovell wants his money back. Some weeks later, Jenny Bowen invites him for a tea and he tells that he was Greg’s friend. He didn’t know about his Heath and He wanted to find his family. Thanks to Mike, Jenny could buy Josephine’s shares at the cafe. Meanwhile, Nick discovers that, he likes Sinéad much more. Once he invites her for pizza and then he kisses her. They become a couple. Sanjay’s father isn’t happy of son’s choice. But when Sanjay show him a brochure of Beckedon school, he tells his son to try to win the scholarship. He doesn’t like Jasmin’s reaction, because he suspected that she’ll cry and tell him to stay. Sinéad at last is Nick’s girlfriend. She’s very happy, but her family’s got another problem – Shaun Flaherty bought a pony, which doesn’t win any race. He stops to spend the money, when his workshop is arsoned. The Flahertys move to a smaller house. Sinéad meets her friends in a club, where everybody swears to keep their friendship forever.