Big Girl starts out with a couple, Jim and Christine, who get married at an early age. From the beginning, their morals are dubious. Jim really wants them to have a baby boy- Christine also wants a boy, but only because her husband does. They try but end up having a girl . Born to a narcisistic father who is obsessed with looks and money, and a food- and- fitness obsessed house- wife who plays Bridge, and who seems to exist to agree with her husband, both parents are disappointed in their baby girl from the moment she is born. They name her Victoria, for Queen Victoria- not because, as Victoria believed as a child, she was a Queen in her fathers eyes, but because the picture Victoria saw of her namesake depicted a 'fat and ugly old woman, who resembled one of the dogs she posed with.' As she grows older, Victoria resembles not her dark eyed, dark haired parents, but is referred to as a 'genetic throwback' to Jims great- grandmother, known for her overweight, matronly figure, fair looks and 'large nose'. Constantly bullied by her parents about her weight, everything changes for Victoria at seven years old when her mother has another baby- another girl they name Grace, whom Victoria calls 'Gracie'. Despite the obvious favouritism and constant remarks of praise and adoration her younger sister receives, Victoria shows no jealousy and is obsessed with doing everything for her sister the moment she is born. As the girls grow up and Victoria and Gracie get older, their love for each other is stronger than ever, despite the constant remarks their parents make about Victoria's weight, her chosen career as a teacher and lack of a husband or boyfriend. Victoria moves to New York and gets a job at a prestigious school, though her parents still criticize her. There she gains few friends, but they are good friends, and she tries a few tentivite relationsships, all of which fail and which she blames on her being 'too fat, too clever and unloveable', parrotting her parents' beliefs. She sees a psychiatrist, and works through some of her problems but always returns to eating when upset. When Victoria finds out her sister, who is barely as old as her parents were when they married, is engaged to a rich, controlling fiance, Victoria begins to worry her younger sister will turn into her parents... Again a girl. Big Girl is a book explaining the life of Victoria and her relationships with both her parents and younger sister.