Bluestar's Prophecy tells the story of Bluekit, a blue-gray female she-cat born into ThunderClan along with her white sister, Snowkit. A few moons (months) after becoming an apprentice (with her name being changed to “Bluepaw”), ThunderClan attacks another Clan called WindClan on account of stolen food, and Bluepaw’s gray tabby mother, Moonflower, is killed during the raid. Later on, at a Gathering, Bluepaw meets a tabby apprentice named Crookedpaw (later Crookedjaw and then Crookedstar), an apprentice from RiverClan, and they quickly become friends. But their friendship doesn’t last long when the two angry Clans battle over territory, and Bluepaw defeats Crookedpaw. Bluepaw later goes on a hunting patrol with Snowpaw. Bluepaw chases a rabbit into a hole, along with Snowpaw (Snowkit), and they ended up at a place called Snakerocks, where a fox had already killed the rabbit. Bluepaw runs toward the camp with Snowpaw ahead of her, but realizes that she is leading the fox directly to her Clanmates. Bluepaw then faces the fox and was interrupted when a lightning bolt strikes a branch above her, which set it on fire. Goosefeather, the Clan's medicine cat, receives a prophecy about Bluepaw being a fire that blazes through the forest, but water may destroy her. Bluepaw and Snowpaw eventually receive their warrior names, Bluefur and Snowfur. Snowfur's relationship with her sister is later damaged when she falls in love with another warrior, a spiky-furred dark gray-and-white cat named Thistleclaw, whom Bluefur feels is arrogant and untrustworthy. Later, Thistleclaw and Snowfur have a son, Whitekit, later known as Whitepaw, and then Whitestorm. Bluefur later meets a famous RiverClan warrior named Oakheart, a handsome reddish brown tom; although she does not seem to like him at first, they eventually fall in love. Meanwhile, Pinestar, Bluefur's leader, leaves ThunderClan to become a kittypet (house cat). Sunfall, Pinestar’s deputy, takes his place as ThunderClan’s leader, and his name is changed to Sunstar. Not long after this, Snowfur is killed, hit by a speeding car while chasing ShadowClan intruders from their territory, leaving a heartbroken Bluefur to care for Whitekit. Many seasons pass, and a few days after Whitestorm receives his warrior name, Bluefur decides to meet with Oakheart one evening. They meet at the usual Clan Gathering place (“Fourtrees”), and have a lot of fun together, later deciding to spend the night there together, but agreed when it was over that they would never meet like this again, for the good of their Clans. One moon later, Bluefur is horrified to find out that she is expecting kits. Thrushpelt,a sandy gray ThunderClan warrior who has a crush on Bluefur, offers to help her take care of the kits, to which she accepts, allowing the rest of ThunderClan to believe that he is the father, since Bluefur was determined to keep the father's identity a secret. Sunstar tells Bluefur that he was planning to make her ThunderClan’s new deputy, on account of the current deputy deciding to retire, but since she was having kits, he was thinking about letting Thistleclaw become the deputy instead. Bluestar knew that allowing Thistleclaw to become deputy and then leader would be extremely deadly to the Clan (she saw him in a vision dripping with blood), Bluefur takes her three kits to Oakheart, where they would be raised in RiverClan, but on the way, one of them, Mosskit, a gray-and-white she-kit, dies because of the freezing snow. When she returns, she pretends that a starving predator had taken her kits. Bluefur is made deputy, and learns that Sunstar only received eight lives from StarClan because Pinestar had not died yet. After Sunstar loses his final life, she becomes leader, receiving her own nine lives and leader name (Bluestar). After successfully leading ThunderClan for several seasons, she receives another prophecy from the current ThunderClan medicine cat, Spottedleaf: “Fire alone can save our Clan.”, which puzzles Bluestar. She later goes on patrol with Whitestorm and her deputy, Redtail, and while nearing the twoleg (human) nests (houses), she catches sight of a bright ginger kittypet named Rusty, who she later invites to join the Clan, believing that he is the destined cat from Spottedleaf's prophecy, and invites him to the Clan and names him Firepaw, and eventually Fireheart. The story ends with Bluestar thanking StarClan for everything they had done, and happily picturing the gorgeous future of Fireheart one day "blazing through the forest", as Firestar, the next leader of ThunderClan. In the prologue it shows Bluestar, on her last life, watching as Fireheart leads a pack of vicious dogs to the gorge and hopefully off. She sees him in the clutches of the pack leader and knows he can't be the one to die. She attacks the dog who drops Fireheart and follows her off the gorge. Fireheart rescues her and with the help of her kits (Mistyfoot and Stonefur) is pulled a shore. In her dying moments her kits forgive her for giving them up to RiverClan.