The book picks up with Anna Percy leaving for Bali with her childhood friend, Logan. Unfortunately, there is a problem with the plane so it turns around and heads back to L.A. Anna starts calling Sam on the airplane's phone, but she loses the connection. Meanwhile, Sam is with her fiancee Eduardo, when she sees the news of the troubled flight on television; she turns to Eduardo and tells him that "If Anna makes it out safe, we'll get married in a week." Anna indeed does make it out safely from the plane and at the airport, her father and Sam are waiting for her. Ben was also there, watching from a few feet away but decides to leave when he sees Anna and Logan kiss, not wanting to ruin their happy moment. Before going to the airport, Ben was with Cammie at the new club, Bye Bye Love, when unexpectedly Adam Flood shows up. While talking to Adam, Cammie gets a call from Sam about Anna, whom she is actually worried about, and she goes inside and turns on the television. Ben sees and goes "home". Sam meets her parents—Jackson and Dina(whom Sam is surprised is back in her life)--to meet Eduardo's parents Consuela and Pedro. They are all very excited about the wedding but Eduardo's parents are hesitant about the marriage since Sam will be at USC film school and Eduardo in Paris. Sam doesn't know if she wants to give up her place at her dream school to be with Eduardo in a different country and tells the others she is not ready to make her decision. All the while, Cammie is at the club with Ben, trying to rekindle their relationship. Anna wakes up to talk to her dad, still undecided about Yale. She decides to finish the screenplay on her laptop that she started in Manhattan and sends it to Sam Sam, Cammie, and Dee get their nails done and Sam decides she wants Cammie to be her Maid Of Honor and for Dee to be a bridesmaid. Later on Monday morning, after 24 hours of writing, Anna meets up Logan who insists they go to Bye, Bye, Love as Logan got an invitation. At the club, Anna spots Cammie and Ben together. When Ben spots her with Logan, she thinks he seems jealous. Anna has second thoughts about going to Bali with Logan. Sam attends a USC orientation, and is surprised to find herself excited for school which causes her to have second thoughts about going to Paris with Eduardo. Later on she goes to have coffee with Dee and Cammie so they can help plan her wedding, but Cammie is too busy with the club which cause Sam to get angry that Cammie is not fulfilling her responsibilities as Maid of Honor. She announces that Dee, who had always been ecstatic about the wedding planning, is her new maid of honor, and if Cammie is still interested, she can be a bridesmaid. Anna goes to a meeting after which she catches up with Logan, when she gets an emergency call-her dad at the hospital with a case of subdural hematoma. Sam also comes to the hospital to show support for Anna. While there, Ben, who got a call from Sam, shows up saying that he's sorry how things got so weird between them. Anna agrees and that encounter changes things. Sam has read Anna's screenplay, but has not told her. Instead, she goes to Marty Martison,a huge movie producer, to see if it can be a movie but she leaves disappointed. Later on, Sam goes for a fitting on her new dress designed by Giselle, a Chilean designer who she thought was interested in Eduardo, and suspects she is a lesbian. After her mother, Dina, comes and they have a heart-to-heart conversation about why she never showed up in her life. Anna is at the hospital with her dad who says he was playing tennis when the ball hit him. Surprisingly, Anna's estranged sister Susan shows up and announces she will be staying with their father so that Anna will be free to leave for Yale on Saturday, which Anna begins having second thoughts about. Adam and Cammie reconnect at Sam's wedding rehearsal but not in a romantic way. Anna makes her final decision and tells Logan she hasn't regretted anything they've done together, but she's not going to Bali with him and she is not attending Yale either. Sam begins having pre-wedding jitters and starts to wonder if she is too young to get married when she walks in to her father and mother kissing. Sam goes back to the rehearsal, saying she can't get married, but her parents convince her it is only pre-wedding jitters but Cammie disagrees. She announces to the others that Sam doesn't want to get married while Sam just nods in response which crushes Eduardo and he tells her he wish he never met her. Sam and Anna are out for drinks next day and they decide to make big plans for Anna's last day. Sam calls Cammie, who is with Ben. She tells him that the club is his thing and that they should just be friends when she receives Sam's call who tells her to grab her bridesmaid's dress and meet her and Anna on Jackson Sharpe's boat. While on the boat, Anna is confronted by none other than Marty Maritson, saying that he read the screenplay and it is the perfect thing and they would love to make a deal. Anna is shocked—Sam not only read it but had gotten one of Hollywood's biggest producers to help make it a movie. She agrees, but only if Sam can direct. Anna goes to find Sam, who reveals she was listening in from the balcony. They agree to change the title to The A-List and start discussing actors to star in it, setting the stage for the The A-List: Hollywood Royalty. Cammie goes to Adam and apologizes to him, saying she will move to Michigan with him, just to be together but Adam tells her he's changed his mind and will be attending Pomona, a college nearby. He tells Cammie that he did not want to tell her about his decision because he knew she would only be with him because of that fact. While Sam's mom and dad are getting remarried, a helicopter enters with Eduardo who apologizes to Sam and asks her to keep in touch. Anna and Ben meet up and Anna tells him she loves him. The books ends with the two sharing their first kiss since their break up. This book is the last novel in the series.