This book is the third in the Enchanted Forest series, told from the witch Morwen's perspective. Morwen is having trouble with people who believe that magic should follow traditional forms, specifically one Arona Michealear Grinogion Vamist. Morwen's cats find a large rabbit named Killer as well as the burned-looking splotches that a wizard's staff leaves in the forest, despite the spell on the forest that should prevent it. They then find the wizard Antorell, who tries to escape but is subdued by the cats and then melted by Telemain. Morwen then finds that Killer has eaten one of the magical cabbages in her garden, and has turned into a donkey. Throughout the story, Killer acquires additional spells and changes form. Morwen and Telemain immediately go to the castle of King Mendanbar and Queen Cimorene, who is pregnant. At the castle, Mendanbar and Telemain discover that the sword at the heart of the forest's magic is missing, allowing the wizards free rein in the forest. Morwen, Kazul, Telemain, Cimorene, Killer and two of Morwen's cats must undertake the journey to the headquarters of the Society of Wizards, who stole the sword. Telemain teleports the group twice towards their destination. The next teleport fails and Telemain is unconscious. Killer carries Telemain as they make their way through a swamp. They find a tower occupied by a fire-witch, Brandel. Using Brandel's magic mirror, they try to contact Mendanbar, and find that they cannot because of a problem at his end. Kazul decides to go home and back up Mendanbar. The next morning, again with Brandel's mirror, they find that the sword is not at the headquarters of the Society of Wizards as they assumed, but at the house of Vamist. With the help of the cats, Morwen and Cimorene manage to recover the sword. Telemain teleports them back to the forest. The group realizes that they accidentally brought Vamist along. A battle has also occurred between the dragons and wizards. The wizards encased the castle in a magical bubble, and Mendanbar is missing, presumed inside the castle. As with the bubble shield spell in Searching for Dragons, the only way to break it is with the sword of the King of the Enchanted Forest, and the only one who can wield the sword is the King or his heir. Morwen and Telemain move the spells on Killer onto Vamist, returning the rabbit to his natural form. Cimorene hides the sword in the forest so the wizards cannot find it. She takes her baby and hides in an outer region of the forest. The dragons put up a second bubble around the castle, which only they can take down, so that the wizards can't enter the castle either. The characters wait for the day Cimorene's child is old enough to wield the sword and rescue Mendanbar.