The story continues where the previous book left off, with George and Harold running away from Tippy Tinkletrousers. As they are running away, the book explains something called 'The Banana Cream Pie Paradox', meaning that going back to the past and changing something will remain its changed way in the present. Meanwhile, the story switches to what will happen if Tippy Tinkletrousers did not appear, making George, Harold and Mr.Krupp to jail. Meanwhile, at the Piqua State Penitentiary, Tippy (who is also a prisoner from the fourth book) is tasked to build a statue of Warden Gordon Bordon Shmorden who is chief jailer of the prison, Tippy does the task but instead builds "a giant robot suit". On the day Tippy presents his robot suit to Gordon Shmorden, he reveals his work and climbs on to the suit and freezes everyone in his way (the same suit used at the very end of the eighth book). Tippy then grabs Mr.Krupp and forces him to get George and Harold. Tippy soon finds George and Harold and puts Mr. Krupp down, wanting information of Captain Underpants. George and Harold snap their fingers which makes Mr. Krupp turn into Captain Underpants. Captain Underpants gets chased, while Tippy is unsuccessfully trying to freeze him, soon he accidentally freezes his robotic legs and as a last resort, time travels from five years ago. The story switches to George and Harold as kindergartens who have a hard school life due to the fact that Kipper (a school bully and Mr. Krupp's nephew) bullies them along with his friends. George and Harold find a way to stop Kipper (which include the created ghost of 'Wedgie Magee') and soon scares Kipper and his gang. Kipper and his gang are very scared, that they run out of school right when Tippy arrives from his time traveling journey. Which makes Kipper and his gang even more scared until they become mental. This makes the police accuse Mr. Krupp, causing him to lose his job. Tippy then time travels back to the present time, thinking that kids five years from the past were weird. However, as Mr. Krupp was hypnotized when George and Harold were in the 4th grade, a universe is created where Captain Underpants never existed. Tippy arrives to a present destroyed and overrun by giant evil zombie nerds. At the end, Tippy gets squashed by two zombie nerds who are really George and Harold. What remains left of Tippy is a red squishy stain.In the last chapter the words say the adventures we know and love never actually happened, and then states there will be no more Captain Underpants stories (except book 10, coming January 15, 2013). The Adventures Of Dog Man The comic begins with a police guy whose partner is a special trained police dog named Greg. They are professionals on catching criminals. One day, he and Greg spotted a bomb, but it was too late to defuse it. Then they got transported to the Hospital via Ambulance. The doctor announces that Greg's body is dying and the Cop's head is dying too. Then the nurse had a great idea: that he will cut off Greg's head and sow it on the Cop's body. The doctor accepted the idea and they held a big operation. It was successful and everyone called him "Dog Man." Dog man is the best of all cops because he sniff criminals with his nose, hear crimes with his ears, and punch criminals with his fist. But he had one mortal fear: vacuum cleaners. Petey, the world's most evilest cat, saw Dog Man's weakness so he invented the evil vacuum robot. The robot stole all the money from the bank and Dog Man came to stop it but the vacuum was chasing him. The robot chased Dog Man until he reached to the corner. Dog Man knew it was death time for him until the plug for the robot got unplugged. Dog Man then destroyed the robot and followed the cord. The cord lead to Petey's hideout and arrested him. Then Dog Man celebrated the victory by drinking some none alcoholic wine. The Curse Of Wedgie Magee The comic starts with this kindergartner named Wedgie Magee who always got picked on by the bunch of bullies. The bullies also gave him wedgies and stole his money. One day, he couldn't take it anymore so he went to see a Gypsy Lady. Wedgie said that he gets wedgies all the time and she said that he is going to give him a special Potion that will help him. She was supposed to give him the Anti-Wedgie Potion, but when she forgot her glasses, she gives him a Voo-Doo Ghost Potion instead. She gave Wedgie the instruction that when the bullies come by to give him a wedgie, he has to pour the potion onto his pants. The next day the bullies came by to gave him a wedgie, and he poured it onto his pants. The pants disappeared and it became a ghost. Nobody was scared and they are laughing in hysterics. Then he died of embarrassment. On that very night when Wedgie Magee died, his pants came back for revenge. He ate the first bully on his way home from school, ate up the second bully while he was eating dinner, and ate up the third bully when he was in bed. After that, his pants are laid to rest, but he will be back to people who are mean to Kindergartners. At the back of the comic book, there is a bonus section page explaining to the reader or Kipper and his friends the ways he could get cursed and how to undo it. Here are the reasons: # You start acting all weird and stuff. # You want to play with Dolls, Dresses, and Bracelets. # You get ectoplasm and spiders on your stuff. # Awesome food like pizza tastes all hot and burns your mouth and stuff. # Your armpits get all burned and stuff. The only way to undo this curse is must undo all the bad stuff you did and never pick on anybody.