During the reign of Emperor Claudius in the 1st century AD, the powers of the Roman Empire and the Parthian Empire are jockeying for influence over the Kingdom of Palmyra, which buffers the two empires and keeps an uneasy peace. Fearing a Parthian invasion of the Roman province of Syria, the Romans send an Auxiliary cohort to build a hill fort on the banks of the Euphrates. In response, the Parthians ambush the fort, slaughtering the garrison. Meanwhile, the Tenth legion, Third legion and the Sixth legion are drilling for war against the Parthians. Prefect Macro and Centurion Cato are drilling the Second Illyrian auxiliary cohort, attached to the Tenth legion for the war. Cato and Macro were sent east by Claudius' personal secretary, Narcissus, to gather proof that the Roman governor of Syria, Longinus is planning to use the Syrian legions in a bid for the imperial throne, however, thus far they failed to prove his treachery. During their time in Antioch, Crispus, a Roman legionary murders an auxiliary during an argument, leading to Crispus being put to death, causing a rift between the auxiliaries and legionaries on the base. A Parthian convoy arrives, delivering the head of Centurion Castor, the soldier who led the auxiliaries to build the Roman hillfort, and warns of Parthian intervention, should Rome continue to meddle in Palmyra's affairs. Shortly thereafter, a Roman soldier guarding a Roman diplomat, Lucius Sempronius, arrives from Palmyra, announcing that Palmyra has descended into civil war. Prince Artaxes, an ambitious heir to the Palmyran throne leads an army against his father, King Vabathus, blockading them in the Palmyran Citadel. Fearing the Parthians will arrive before the Romans can, Longinus sends the Second Illyrian, and a cohort of the Tenth legion to reinforce the Palmyran loyalists until the Roman army can arrive in force. Along the way, the Roman column under Prefect Macro are aided by the mysterious Prince Balthus, who covets the Palmyran throne, despite not being Vabathus' first born. The Roman column manages to fight their way through the city and into the citadel, where they realise the gravity of the situation. Vabathus' first born is Prince Artaxes, a Parthian sympathiser, whilst Balthus, despite being a skilled soldier squanders his time in trivial pursuits. Prince Amethus is easily persuaded, and is often used to further the ambitions of Krathos, an ambitious Palmyran noble. Following a banquet to celebrate the successful defence of a rebel attack, Amethus is found murdered, with Balthus being the prime suspect. Meanwhile, Cato meets Sempronius' daughter, Julia, and the two fall in love. Following a rebel bombardment of the citadel, the food stores are destroyed, with only two days of supplies left. However, Longinus arrives with the Tenth legion, Third Legion and several auxiliary cohorts, lifting the siege. Longinus later reveals to Macro and Cato that they were never meant to reach Palmyra, and were meant to die in the desert, thus removing the two spies that had frustrated his plans. Against the advice of Cato, Longinus leads the army out into the desert, determined to destroy Artaxes' army and his Parthian allies. During a night attack, Longinus panics, orders a retreat and leaves the army at the mercy of the Parthian horsemen. On the suggestions of Cato, the army manages to defeat the rebels and the Parthians in a pitched battle, leading to the death of Prince Artaxes on the order of Balthus. Back in Palmyra, it is revealed that Balthus had ordered his slave, Carpex, to murder Amethus, and he is arrested, to be put to death. Sempronius reveals that the Empire is to annex Palmyra, and absorb it into the province of Syria, as there are no heirs that Rome can work with. Macro and Cato are released from Narcissus' employment, ending their posting in the East, and Sempronius gives his consent for Cato to marry Julia.