The story begins in the year 1463 DR with a meeting of the Xoralarrin House of Menzoberranzan. Ravel is the second boy and spellspinner of the house. He is a former apprentice of Gromph. While studying with him he discovered the Skull Gem containing the soul of Arklem Greeth and learns of the recently rediscovered Gauntlgrym. House Xoralarrin has more mages than any other house in the city but chafes under the rule of House Baerne and the House Barrison Del' Armgo. At this meeting are Brach'Thal - a mage of diminished power since the Spellplauge and Ravel's older brother and father, Matron Mother Zeerith Xoralarrin, and Jaerth the house weapon master. Ravel proposes the plan to take Gauntlygrym as their own and establish a new drow city with them as the rulers. The plan is approved and Ravel is to lead the expedition along with Brach'Thal, Jaerth, Saribel (a young priestess), and Berellip (an older and more powerful priestess, and he is given a budget to hire mercenaries. Once out of the city the expedition force assembles. Nearly 100 mercenaries are composed mostly of houseless rogue drows, a drider named Yerrininae and his twenty warriors, and a host of goblin slaves. However, Tiago Baerne is among the drow mercenaries. Tiago is a lizard rider, a powerful warrior on his way to becoming house weapon master, and the grandson of Dantrag Baerne. Meanwhile in Menzoberranzan, Gromph has a conversation with Andzrel Baerne (the current weapon master of the house) that Ravel's expedition has not gone unnoticed and that it goes according to the wishes of Matron Mother Quenthal Baerne. Andzrel is upset that his second - Tiago, has been sent on the journey without his approval. After being dismissed by the wizard, Gromph reflects on one more making the journey to Gaunltgrym, Gol'fanin: a master drow blacksmith. Drizzt and Dahlia begin their journey back to Neverwinter. Drizzt wonders if Dahlia is manipulating him and is not altogether displeased by this idea, reminding himself there is much he does not know about her. Close by, Effron spies on them unnoticed and prepares the Shadovar mercenaries of Cavus Dun for an ambush on the two with the desired result being Drizzt's death and Dahlia's capture. The force consists of Jermander-leader and swordsman, Ratsis-spider tamer, Parbid and Afafrenfere- warrior monks and friends, Amber Gristle O' Maul (Ambergris)- dwarven priestess, Bol- a large tiefling warrior, Horrible- a silent female warrior, and Shifter- a powerful Shadovar mage. In Neverwinter Herzgo Alegni proclaims that Jelvus Grinch to be the head of the White Guard formed by the people of Neverwinter. And that he will lead the Black Guard composed of Shadovar. Jelvus and the citizens of Neverwinter want him gone now that the threat of Sylora Salm and the Thayans has been defeated. Herzgo declares himself the ruler of Neverwinter by threat of violence and Jelvus and the others reluctantly agree. Arunika, the succubus, and her partner Brother Anthus strive to find a way to weaken Herzgo's rule while waiting for the eventual return of the Aboleth Sovereignty. Arunika goes to the site of the Dread Ring to find the lich Valindra Shadowmatle and instead finds her imp familiar Invidoo and a zombie Sylora bent in half unable to walk. Invidoo wants his freedom from service and Arunika will grant it to him if he can find a replacement for himself who is familiar with Drizzt. Artemis Entreri comes to the outskirts of Neverwinter where Herzgo and more importantly Charon's Claw are. Faced with the reality of becoming the sword's slave once again Artemis turns around and heads back towards Drizzt and Dahlia, effectively choosing sides in the conflict to come. Effron's mercenary force ambushes Drizzt and Dahlia who are separated by the Shifter's magic. Parbid and Afafrenfere attack Drizzt; but Drizzt is able to kill Parbid with a shot from Taulmaril the Heartseeker. Dahlia is trapped by Ratsis's spiders and has to fight Bol and Horrible at a disadvantage. She is able to kill Bol which enrages Horrible to lethal frenzy. The Shifter is forced magically knock her over and Ambergris stealthily uses her magic to kill Horrible. In the confusion Ambergris knocks out Afafrenfere and carries him off. Fully ensnared Dahlia is defenseless until Artemis arrives killing one spider and Jermander. Guenhwyvar kills the other spider and both the Shifter and Ratsis flee. This battle has the result of Drizzt, Dahlia, and Artemis joining forces and traveling to Neverwinter together. It is also the beginning of a bond between Dahlia and Artemis because of the pain they have shared at the hands of Herzgo. It is a bond Drizzt doesn't understand or appreciate and it only deepens with time. Ravel and the expedition force continue on to Gauntlgrym encountering minor enemies along the way. However, a power struggle begins to develop between the priestesses, Ravel and his mages, and Tiago as to whom is in charge. Eventually they reach Gauntlgrym and defeat the dwarf ghosts guarding the city due in large part to the efforts of Ravel. Tiago then puts his support behind him, giving him the upper hand over his two priestess sisters. Amber Gristle arrives in Neverwinter. Aruinka plots for a way to increase Herzgo's power in the region until he has gained too much and draws the attention of the Waterdeep lords thereby clearing the way for the Aboleth Sovereignty to return. Herzgo asks Draygo Quick for more warriors but only receives a hundred. Herzgo confronts Effron about his attempt to capture Dahlia without his permission. Drizzt, Dahlia, and Entreri attempt to sneak into Neverwinter through the sewers. They are confronted by a pack of snakes and finally the mother snake. Which turns out to be a young Aboleth hiding in the sewers spying on Neverwinter. Dahlia and Entreri are both hypnotized but Drizzt is able to resist and eventually the three of them kill it and in the process free a half dozen other slaves. Ravel and the rest claim the forge of Gauntlygrym and begin the process of reactivating it. Brach'Thal though greatly diminished in power is instrumental in this as he is a master of controlling elementals. The force then begins the process of clearing out the rest of the city and activating the rest of the forges. Herzgo learns of the three companions in the sewers from Invidoo's imp replacement. Herzgo meets them on the bridge and uses Charon's Claw to immediately enslave Artemis once again who then turns on Drizzt. This leaves Herzgo free to battle Dahlia and Effron is free as well to fight all three. Drizzt manages to summon Guenhwyvar who then pursues Effron keeping him busy. Finally Drizzt who is fighting at a disadvantage against Artemis leaves himself wide open and challenges Artemis to ask himself, is he a slave of the sword or a free man? This enrages Artemis who uses his anger to resist the sword and moves in on Herzgo. Dahlia is losing her fight against Herzgo and leaps over the side of the bridge. Artemis tries to strike him but is stopped by Charon's Claw. Although he can resist the mental intrusion he can't overcome the physical pain it inflicts on him. Just as Herzgo is about to finish him off Dahlia returns in the form of a giant crow, thanks to her magical cloak, and pecks out one of Herzgo's eyes causing him to drop Charon's Claw. Realizing the battle is lost he tries to escape through a shadow gate but is tackled by Guenhwyvar and they both go through the gate. Jelvus Grinch and Arunika then lead a revolt against the Shadovar. Glorfathel a Cavus Dun mage goes to report the loss of this battle to Draygo Quick. Entreri and Dahlia join the revolt and begin to kill Shadovar. Effron flees for the Shadowfell. Drizzt retrieves Charon's Claw. He also tries to recall Guenhwyvar but can't. Entreri then asks Drizzt to destroy Charon's Claw which would kill him as well, only they don't know how. In the aftermath of the battle Ambergris heals their wounds and tells Drizzt that Arunika may know something of Guenhwyvar's status. Drizzt speaks with her and learns that the statue and Guenhwyvar are no longer connected. The three then decide to head to Gauntlgrym as the primordial there offers the best chance of destroying the sword. It is revaled that Herzgo didn't die and is now charged with the recovery of Charon's Claw by Draygo Quick and that a second failure will not be tolerated. On their way to Gauntlgrym they are attacked by Shadovar but are able to repel the attack. All the while Entreri's and Dahlia's bond continues to grow. This causes feelings of distrust, anger, and jealousy in Drizzt. Most of this is brought on by Charon's Claw attempting to fight back. After the attack Glorfathel orders Ambergris and Afafrenfere to follow them as their location would be worth a great deal to Herzgo. Upon entering Gauntlgrym the Shifter approaches Drizzt and offers to give back Guenhwyvar (who has been captured by Draygo Quick) in exchange for Charon's Claw. As tempting as it is Drizzt knows he could never make that deal. The drow force continues erecting defences and the Shadovar teleport in to the city to intercept the three companions. Ambergris and Afafrenfere also enter and pass the tombs of Bruenor and the throne of Gaunltgrym. Ambergris is very respectful and reverent to both. Soon the three companions and the Shadovar begin to fight. The sword continues to urge conflict between Drizzt and Artemis but Drizzt is able to overcome it and regain control. As the three try to gain entry both sides are ambushed by the drow. All three are hit by sleeping poison crossbow darts, but before they fall asleep Artemis yells out that they are agents of Bregen D'aerthe. Drizzt and Artemis are able to convince the drow that they are agents of Jarlaxle. The drow then retreat to the lower tunnels leaving the three of them behind in the upper levels. The drow also decide to leave the city for now as they were not prepared for conflict with the Nethrese but intend to return with a more powerful force. Brach'thal doing his best to help the primordial as it grants him power is given a lava elemental by the primordial to aid him. It is also revealed that Gol'fanin has been working on a sword and shield of great magical power for Tiago. But with the new threat will not have enough time to complete them. The drow retreat except for Brach'thal as the battle between primordial elementals, Shadovar, and the three companions intensifies. Herzgo prepares to meet the three companions and sends Ambergris, Afafrenfere, Glorfathel, and Effron to stop them from escaping. Ambergris then betrays them by throwing Glorfathel into the lava pit, and stunning Afafrenfere with magic, and attacking Effron. Meanwhile Dhalia and Entreri engage Herzgo's remaining forces, allowing Drizzt to slip by, confront and kill Brach'Thal, and get to the primordial pit. As the battle has become lost Herzgo tells Effron to retreat and is about to do so himself when Drizzt throws Charon's Claw into the pit. The sword reaches out to Herzgo and begs him to save it. This slight delay is all Dahlia needs to launch an attack with the power to kill Herzgo. Drizzt actually faked throwing the sword away in attempt to stall Herzgo. Dahlia continues to brutalize the dead body of Herzgo when Effron calls out to his father. He then screams at Dahlia that this is the second time she tried to kill him and that he will kill her, his mother. They then confront Ambergris about her being here, in Neverwinter, and the initial ambush in the forest which she admits to all. When asked about the stunned Afafrenfere she replies that he isn't so bad. With nothing left standing in their way, Drizzt throws Charon's Claw into the pit expecting to kill Artemis Entreri as well. The sword is destroyed but for some reason Artemis lives. In the Shadowfell, Effron with Draygo Quick's blessing begins to plot his revenge on Dahlia. Afafrenfere attempts to attack Drizzt but Ambergris stops him and then places a geas on him so that he cannot ever attack Drizzt. Tiago realizing that all the opposition has left Gauntlgrym and urges Gol'fanin to return to the forge and complete his work on the sword and shield he began. At the entrance to Gauntlygrym, Ambergris reveals that the geas was a fake but Afafrenfere will be no problem. Drizzt finds himself trusting and liking Ambergris. In the throne room Pwent returns to life as an undead vampire. Invidoo's replacement imp is revealed to be Druzil who is working for Errtu whose hundred years of banishment are almost over and is plotting his revenge on Drizzt. Back in the forge room Gol'fanin reveals to Tiago that the drow he thought was an agent of Bregen D'aerthe was actually Drizzt Do'Urden. And that the sword and shield he is forging will give him the power to become house weapon master but the head of Drizzt would make him a legend.