Rather than follow strict chronological order Lee uses thematic chapters as follows: * First Light describes Laurie arriving with his mother and family at their cottage in Slad, Gloucestershire, Cotswolds. The young children gorge themselves on the fruit bushes and bread as their harassed mother tries to get the cottage and their furniture into some kind of order. The house relies on a small wood-fire for the cooking and a hand pump in the scullery for its water. They are visited by a man in uniform who is sleeping out in the surrounding woods — he visits them in the mornings for food and to dry out his damp clothes. He is finally taken off by men in uniform as a deserter. The chapter ends with the villagers riotously celebrating the end of the Great War. * First Names describes Laurie still sleeping in his mother's bed but eventually forced out of it by his younger brother, Tony, and made to sleep with the two elder boys. As he grows older, he starts to recognise the villagers as individuals — people like Cabbage-Stump Charlie, the local bruiser, Albert the Devil, a deaf mute beggar and Percy-from-Painswick, a clown and ragged dandy, who likes to seduce the girls with his soft tongue. Owing to its location, the cottage is in the path of the floods that flow into the valley and Laurie and his family have to go outside to clear the storm drain every time there is a heavy downpour, but even this sometimes fails to stop the sludge despoiling their kitchen from time to time. * Village school The dame teacher is called Crabby B, owing to her predilection to suddenly hit out at the boys for no apparent reason. However, she meets her match in Spadge Hopkins, a burly local farmer's boy, who leaves the classroom one day after placing her on top of one of the cupboards. She is replaced by Miss Wardley, from Birmingham, who "wore sharp glass jewellery", who is more refined and 'her reins looser but stronger.' * The Kitchen The Lee's domestic life in the cottage. At the beginning, Laurie Lee makes a reference to his father who had abandoned them, saying that he and his brothers never knew any male authority. After working in the Army Pay Corps, he entered the Civil Service and settled in London for good. As Lee says, :Lee describes each of the family members and also their daily routine, his sisters going off to work in Stroud to the shops or looms, and the younger boys trying to avoid their mother's chores. In the evenings the whole family sits around the big kitchen table, the girls gossiping and sewing as the boys do their homework and the eldest son, Harold , who is working as lathe handler, mends his bicycle. * Grannies in the Wainscot describes the two old women who are the Lee's neighbours - Granny Trill and Granny Wallon - who are permanently at war with each other. Granny Wallon or 'Er-Down-Under spends her days gathering the fruits of the surrounding woods and countryside and turning them into delicious perfumed wines that slowly ferment over a year in their bottles. Granny Trill or 'Er-Up-Atop spends her days combing her hair and reading her almanacs. She lived as a young girl with her father, who was a woodsman, and still seeks her comfort in the forest. The two old women arrange everything so they never meet - they shop on different days, use different paths down the bank to their houses and continuously rap on their floors and ceilings. One day Granny Trill is taken ill and quickly fades away and is soon followed by Granny Wallon who loses her will to live. * Public Death, Private Murder describes the murder of a New Zealander, a local villager made good who returns to the village one year to visit his family, boasting about his wealth and flaunting his money in the local pub. Being the last to leave, he makes his drunken way home and is set upon by some local youths and is found frozen to death the next morning. The police try to find his attackers but are met by a wall of silence and the case is never closed. * Mother is Lee's tribute to his mother, Annie (née Light). Having been forced to leave school early because of her mother's death and the need to look after her brothers and father, she then went into domestic service for the Gentry, working as a maid in various large houses. Having left this to then work for her grandfather in his pub, The Plough, a small Sheepscombe inn, she then answered an ad - Widower (four children) Seeks Housekeeper - which is how she met Lee's father. After four happy years together and three more children, he upped sticks and abandoned them. Lee's description is very affectionate - he describes his mother as having a love for everything and an extraordinary ability with plants, being able to grow anything anywhere. As he says, * Winter and Summer describes the two seasons affecting the village and its inhabitants. One particularly cold winter, the village boys go foraging with old cocoa-tins stuffed with burning rags to keep their mittenless-hands warm. The week before Christmas the Church Choir goes carol singing which involves a five mile tramp through the deep snow. However, calls at the Squire's house and the doctors, the merchants, the farmers and mayors soon fills their wooden box with coins as they light their way home with candles in jam jars. The long hot summers are spent outdoors in the fields and games at night of 'Whistle-or-'Oller-Or-We-shall-not-foller!'. * Sick Boy Lee recounts the various illnesses he suffers as a young boy, some which bring him to the brink of death. He also writes about the death of his four year sister Frances, his mother's only biological daughter, who died unexpectedly when Lee was an infant. * The Uncles is a vivid description of his mother's brothers - Uncle Charlie, Ray, Sid and Tom. All of them fought as cavalrymen in the Great War and settle back on the land. Uncle Ray is perhaps the liveliest, having emigrated to Canada on the transcontinental railway, the Canadian Pacific. He blows himself up with dynamite whilst working in the Rockies and is revived by a Tamworth schoolteacher, Lee's Aunt Elsie. * Outings and Festivals A chapter devoted to the annual village jaunts and events. Peace Day in 1919 is a colourful affair, the procession ending up at the Squire's house where he and his elderly mother make speeches. The family also makes the four mile hike to Sheepscombe to visit their grandfather and Uncle Charlie and his family. There is also a village outing on charabancs to Weston-super-Mare - the women sunbathe on the beach, the men disappear down the side-streets into pubs and the children amuse themselves in the arcade on the pier, playing the penny machines. There is also the Parochial Church Tea and Annual Entertainment to which Laurie and his brother Jack gain free admittance for helping with the arrangements. They finally get to gorge themselves on the food laid out on the trestle-tables in the schoolhouse and Laurie plays his fiddle accompanied by Eileen on the piano to raucous applause. * First Bite at the Apple describes the growth of the boys into young adolescents and the first pangs of love. Lee states that 'quiet incest flourished where the roads were bad' but states that the village neither approved nor disapproved but neither did it complain to authority. This is the time when Laurie is seduced by Rosie Burdock underneath a hay wagon after drinking cider from a flagon: :There is also a plan among half a dozen of the boys to rape Lizzy Berkeley, a fat adolescent sixteen-year-old who writes religious messages on trees in the wood on the way back from church. They wait for her one Sunday morning in Brith Wood but, when Bill and Boney confront her, she slaps them twice and they lose courage, allowing her to run away down the hill. Lee says that Rosie eventually married a soldier, Jo, his young first love, grew fat with a Painswick baker and lusty Bet, another of his sweethearts, went to breed in Australia. * Last Days describes the gradual break up of the village community with the appearance of the motor car and bike. The death of the Squire is almost in parallel with the death of the church's influence over its younger parishioners and the old people just dropped away: :Lee's own family breaks up as the girls are courted by young men arriving on their motorbikes. It is also the end of his rural idyll and emergence into a larger, more looming world. :This is also the time when Laurie Lee experiences the first stirrings of poetry welling up inside him.