Just before Jace and Clary are to leave for the city of Alicante, Jace lies to Clary in the hopes of tricking her into staying for the sake of her own safety. He asks Simon to meet him at the Institute to back him up, only for Clary to end up through the portal after an attack by the Forsaken. The group lands in the Lake Lyn, causing Clary to accidentally swallow some of the water and to hallucinate. She remains behind with Luke's sister Amatis while the others are introduced to Aline Penhallow and her cousin Sebastian Verlac. Jace flirts with Aline to Simon's anger. They are then introduced to the new Inquisitor, who wants Simon to lie about the Lightwoods in order to incriminate them of being in league with Valentine. Simon refuses and is thrown in jail. Clary sneaks away to find the others, only to find Jace and Aline kissing. This causes a fight between the two where Jace insults Clary in order to drive her away and cause her to return home. Clary leaves, heartbroken over his harsh words, and Sebastian later catches up with her to help her with her plan to help her mother. The two go to Ragnor's house the next day, where Clary is shocked to discover that Ragnor has been killed and that Magnus was there in his place. He informs Clary that she must gain a spellbook disguised as a cookbook in the Wayland country home. She then travels to the ruins of Fairchild manor, where she and Sebastian share a kiss that she breaks due to it not feeling right. A projection of Raphael then appears and informs her that Simon is in jail. Clary returns to Amatis's house where Jace is waiting for her. He apologizes to her for his harsh words to her, only for the two to fight once again about him not telling her about Simon being in jail to which Clary even throws glass plates and dishes at him in anger (which he easily avoids). After the two manage to calm down from their fight, they then eventually travel to Wayland manor, only to discover the remains of an experiment Valentine had been running on a half-dead angel. They then learn through the angel that Jace has demon blood. The two barely make it out of the house alive when it begins to explode and while lying on the ground together afterward, end up passionately kissing in the heat of the moment and share a brief moment of passionate romance. Clary stops the two of them when things begin to go too far, accusing Jace of using her so he can hate himself when he says he blames his demon blood for his incesterous feelings for her. The two return to find Alicante in flames and to see Aline grabbed by a demon. Alec goes out to search for Aline, only to run into Magnus and resolve their relationship. Jace and Clary eventually find the spellbook, which she gives to Magnus, angering Sebastian when he asks her for it. Jace, Clary, and Alec leave for the jail where Simon is kept and breaks both him and Samuel out, only to discover that Samuel is actually Hodge, the previous keeper of the Institute. He informs them that the mirror, the last of the Mortal Instruments, is actually the Lake Lyn. Hodge is then killed by Sebastian, who claims that he did it to keep them out of danger. This causes the three to realize that Sebastian is a spy for Valentine, who then flees after a battle with them. They return to the Hall, only to horrifically discover that Sebastian has killed Max. After Max's funeral, Jace sneaks into Clary's bedroom and tells her he loves her and always will. The two then fall asleep on her bed together, holding hands. The following morning, Jace leaves a note behind for Clary to find (along with his family's ring telling her in the note that he wants her to keep it) and sneaks off to find Sebastian. Clary manages to convince the Clave to fight with the Downworlders and teaches them a binding rune that the dying angel showed her. It is during this time that she discovers after talking with her mother, who had finally awaken from her coma by Mangus through the spell book, that she had received angel’s blood while in her mother’s womb and that Jace is actually the son of Stephen Herondale, son of the last Inquisitor, meaning they are not siblings after all. Clary then marks Simon with the Mark of Cain, a powerful protection spell, with the intent of saving him from Raphael, who plans to kill him for being a Daylighter. This causes Raphael to fight the Clave, as this was against what he had asked for. Meanwhile, Jace finds Sebastian talking to Valentine, who intends to use Lake Lyn to summon Raziel to destroy all the Shadowhunters not bound to him. After Valentine leaves Jace to battle Sebastian, who informs him that he (Sebastian) is actually Clary’s brother and the one with demon blood, not Jace (who actually has angel's blood instead of demon). Clary portals to Lake Lyn to stop Valentine from summoning Raziel, only for Valentine to capture her before using a spell to paralyze her body and voice. He then reveals to her his intent of using her as a sacrifice to complete his plan. When Jace arrives to rescue her moments before Valentine is about to slash Clary's throat, Valentine instead uses Jace's blood for the sacrifice, fatally stabbing him, and successfully summons Raziel. However, due to Valentine’s selfish plans and because Clary managed to put her name on the Binding runes instead of her father's, Raziel sees through Valentine's schemes and kills him. When Raziel offers to grant Clary one wish, Clary asks for Jace to come back to life. Raziel then fulfills Clary’s wish, bringing Jace back to life. Afterwards in the epilogue, taking place three days later, the two finally meet up after Jace leaves the infirmary for his wounds. The two then kiss, now finally able to be together, while watching the fireworks alongside their friends in celebration of the successful battle with nothing to keep them apart.