The book follows Simon's difficult transition into vampirism, but equally shows us more about Jace and Clary's relationship. Simon receives an offer from a vampire named Camille Belcourt who claims to have been usurped by Raphael. She says that if Simon joins her side as the Daylighter, then he will finally earn his place in vampire society. After his meeting with Camille, he returns home worried about what his mother will think as she has been suspicious since he went to Idris (City of Glass) and did not return for a few days. Although Magnus erased memories of his absence, she has been sub-consciously suspicious about everything from his whereabouts to his friends as opposed to before when she was less strict. As Simon tries to adjust to life as a vampire, with the Mark of Cain, he is attacked numerous times and each time the Mark's curse works and the attackers are killed (including the time when on his way home in which two strange looking hooded muggers try to overtake him and one of them quickly meets his graphic and bloody demise through on biblical proportions because of the mark of Cain which disturbs Simon whereas the other muggers flee in terror). Meanwhile, Jace has been having dreams in which he murders Clary by stabbing her or choking her which previously has led to stress between the two of them since he has stopped talking to her and has become closed off from her; worrying Clary. Clary's mother, Jocelyn, is having difficulty adjusting to Jace as Clary's boyfriend when he reminds her so much of Valentine. Clary and her mother also discover that someone is trying to make more children like Jonathan, which again Jocelyn has trouble coming to terms with. At one of Simon's band's gigs, Simon runs off stage ill (mostly due to his lack of blood consumption). Maureen, the band's only fan, follows Simon and asks for his picture. Halfway through taking it, Simon bites her and drinks her blood, interrupted just in time by Jordan, the band's new member. The day after, they receive a message saying someone was holding Simon's girlfriend hostage, and he should go to save her. Calling up Clary, Isabelle and Maia, Simon determines it's a joke, only to find it was actually Maureen, who would always claim to be Simon's girlfriend at gigs being known for having a crush on him, who had been kidnapped and killed when Simon did not show up to save her. Jace and Clary have an intimate moment in one of the spare rooms in the Institute where Clary is healing from the scars she had gotten when fighting a Hydra demon at the Church of Talto. He kisses her passionately (on places other than her lips) and just when they are on the brink of having sex where Clary is in her bra and underwear and Jace is only in his jeans, his belt buckle undone, Jace injures Clary with a knife. Disturbed by his recent nightmares, Jace pours out all his nightmares and the reason he is avoiding Clary. Clary then offers to help Jace by taking him to the Silent City. There, the Silent Brothers tell them that the nightmares Jace is having is due to his vulnerability to demonic influence; which occurred after Jace was resurrected after he died when being stabbed by Valentine (Jace and Clary have confessed to what happened that night when the angel was raised). Afterwards, Jace agrees to stay in one of the cells of the Silent City for one night in order for the Silent Brothers to help him by looking inside Jace's mind. Clary wants to stay with Jace, but the Silent Brothers say that she will be a distraction. Jace tells Clary that he will get better for her and Clary promises to see him, after which Jace says that maybe he'll be healed by then. Clary and Jace say their goodbyes and Clary leaves for the night. In his cell, Jace has a dream that he is back is in Idris while realizing it's still a dream. Max appears to him in a dream and Max persuades him that the dreams are telling him that he is actually hurting Clary and that his father (not Valentine) is worried about him. He cuts his arms after Max convinces him that he will destroy the rotten part. With his blood, Max, who is actually the demon Lilith, draws a rune on his chest which allows him to be under Lilith's influence. Jocelyn and Luke (now engaged after Luke finally confessed to her how he feels about her in the epilogue of City of Glass and are preparing for their upcoming wedding) attend an engagement party organized by Luke's werewolf pack, in which Simon disappears. Clary also disappears after being kidnapped by Jace to which no one else knows about yet. He has lied to Clary about leaving the Silent Brothers early (though he doesn't lie about how he wants to be bound to her as the possession has not affected his feelings for her). Jace tells Clary about a rune that binds them to one another forever and Clary accepts and hands him her stele. He begins to draw a rune, but Clary finds out too late that this is not the rune he told her about as she begins to fall unconscious with Jace catching her and carrying her away. Simon is led away from the party by Maureen, now a vampire, and is taken to Lilith, who has been alive since the beginning of time, who turned up at one of Simon's bands gigs and introduced herself as a promoter called Satrina (one of 17 names given to Lilith). She explains that she needs him to resurrect Sebastian from the dead. When he tells her he cannot bring the dead back to life, she tells him that he has had that power since he became a Daylighter. In order to persuade him to resurrect Jonathan, she possesses Jace, through his dreams (a matter of a protective ritual performed when a Shadowhunter is born; when Jace died in Idris and was resurrected by the Angel, this ritual was undone, leaving Jace vulnerable to possession) and orders him to kidnap Clary. Jace brings Clary to Lilith and she orders him to kill her if Simon does not resurrect Sebastian. Simon reluctantly bites him and drains some of his blood; being poisoned in the process due to Sebastian's demon blood. Isabelle, Alec, Maia, and Jordan follow Simon using a business card they found in his wallet in order to find him. When they get to the building, they check every floor until they find him. However, instead of finding Simon, they find the place that Lilith used as her nursery, with all the children dead. Everyone of them had clawed hands and black eyes, like the one Clary and her mom saw at the hospital. The babies were the outcome of Lilith trying to make half-demon children like Sebastian. While going through the room, Isabelle notices a being in the corner and attacks it, but it turns out to be a mother of one of the babies who then tells them the story of what was happening. Meanwhile, Clary tricks Jace by saying how she does not wish to watch and he embraces her (as the possession has not affected his feelings for her, including his concern for her well-being, as seen when he later asks if she is cold). She then grabs Jace's knife and cuts the rune that Lilith is using to possess him on his chest, learning from Luke earlier in the novel that if a rune is disfigured in any way it will lose all its power, causing Jace to be freed from Lilith's control. Jace tells Clary to run away, and believes that she did, but then Lilith reveals that Clary had stayed and starts torturing her with a whip. The third time that she goes to hit Clary, Simon kills Lilith by throwing himself in between Lilith and Clary, of having the Mark of Cain. This makes Lilith's murderous actions come back onto her sevenfold. The Clave appears at the scene, and Isabelle tells them the story of what happened downstairs while Jace is waiting for them upstairs. Jace and Clary share an intimate moment up on the roof, Jace ashamed of his actions despite literally having no control over himself, and Clary telling him that she loves no matter what happens and the two share a kiss. She then goes down to the lobby to meet her mother and Luke while Simon, Maia, Alec, Magnus and Isabelle are also down there, promising to come back in five minutes. It concludes with Jace's rune healing, hearing Sebastian's voice in his head, and with Sebastian/Jonathan now in control of Jace, Jace is forced to finish the awakening ritual on Sebastian, who is now wholly and fully alive.