Because her mother is still in the hospital and has yet to wake up, Clary is now living at Luke's house. Her emotions are further tangled when Simon abruptly kisses her one day at his house and begins calling her his girlfriend. Jace has been exiled from the Institute under suspicions of being a spy for Valentine. He heads to a bar, having nowhere to live now, only to discover that a were child was slain nearby and that the pack wants his help. Jace refuses to help and is attacked by the pack, only to be saved by Luke. After some prompting by Luke, Jace goes to the Institute to confront Alec and Isabelle's mother who had kicked him out, who reveals that the Inquisitor was coming and she was only trying to spare him. Clary returns to Luke's home and receives a text message from Isabelle; Jace has angered the Inquisitor and has been imprisoned in the Silent City. While sitting in his cell, Jace hears something attacking everyone and discovers that Valentine has killed the Silent Brothers to get the second Mortal Instrument, the Soul-Sword. Clary, Isabelle, and Alec respond to a distress call from the Silent City, only to discover the slaying of the Silent Brothers. Clary frees Jace, only for the Inquisitor to appear and accuse Jace of going along with Valentine, as the sword was the only way to prove his guilt or innocence. Magnus Bane offers to keep Jace as a prisoner in his apartment, where he and the others try to figure out Valentine's potential plans. In order to prove Jace's innocence they go to the Fairy Realm. However, Clary is tricked into consuming fairy food, and is only allowed to leave by kissing "whom she most desires", at first Simon offers to kiss her, however Clary instead kisses Jace in order to gain her freedom. This angers Simon, who storms off after they return to their realm. Clary later argues with Jace over their obvious feelings for each other despite being siblings. Jace suggests keeping the relationship a secret, to which Clary replies that it would eventually be discovered anyway and is unwilling to lie to their friends and family. Later Raphael shows up with Simon, who has been almost completely drained of blood and fed vampire blood. As the only way left to save him, Simon is transformed into a vampire, which causes Clary to ignore Jace as a result of her guilt over his death and transformation. While discussing how to potentially tell Simon's mother about his new undead status, Maia is brought into the house with wounds too severe for Luke to treat. Magnus is brought to heal Maia while Jace, Simon, and Clary battle demons outside the house. Jace and Clary later go after the demons to finish them off, where Valentine offers protection if Jace joins him and comes back to Idris. Jace refuses and the next morning the Inquisitor appears with claims that Jace was with Valentine and threatens to kill Jace if Valentine doesn't return the Mortal Instruments. The Inquisitor once again imprisons Jace, planning to have a trade with Valentine; Jace's life for the Mortal Instruments. Jace tries to tell her that it won't work, which the Inquisitor refuses to believe. During this time Maia is attacked by the Demon of Fear while traveling to see Simon, after which Valentine kidnaps her. Clary and the others discover Maia's kidnapping and rescue her, but not before Valentine kills the newborn Simon. Jace manages to restore life to Simon by feeding him his blood, after which the Inquisitor appears. After seeing Jace's star shaped scar, she suddenly kills a demon that was attacking him. She dies during the process, leaving Jace confused at her sudden change. Meanwhile Clary confronts Valentine on the boat after being kidnapped by one of his demons and brought to him, where she falls in the water and is saved by nixies the Fairy Queen sent to help. The group escapes by truck, where Simon discovers that Jace's blood has made him a "Daylighter" that can tolerate the sun. After a talk with Luke about love and his regrets of not telling Clary's mother how he felt about her, Clary attempts to tell Jace of her love for him and sudden change of mind to start a relationship needless of its consequences. However, before she can say anything, he tells her that he will only act as her brother from then on, breaking her heart. As Clary reels from this, she's then informed by a woman named Madeline that she knows how to wake her mother.