Prior to the events The Phantom Menace, Palpatine politically manipulates his colleagues in the Galactic Senate, especially supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum. As the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, he begins to slowly put the Neimoidians and the Trade Federation in position for his blockade of Naboo. A terrorist group named the Nebula Front threatens the activities of the Trade Federation. They are protesting the actions of the Federation and will resort to any means necessary to disrupt the Trade Federation. They hire Captain Cohl to carry out terrorist acts against their business. However, Jedi Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi are hot on the trail of the terrorists and thwart their plans. The Trade Federation petitions the Senate to allow them to increase their number of droid fighters, battle droids, and other defenses. Valorum considers this, but on advice from Palpatine he demands that in exchange the Republic be allowed to tax some of the trade routes they hold. This sparks a debate and a summit is scheduled to be held on the matter. Taking extreme measures, the Nebula Front sets plans in motion to assassinate Valorum at the summit to prevent the taxation. The Jedi Council, along with Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan, step in to track down Captain Cohl and the would-be assassins. While writing the novel, James Luceno was granted access to parts of the screenplay drafts and concept art of Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones. As such, Cloak of Deception was the first (real life) appearance of almost all of the new characters and organizations from Attack of the Clones, including the Techno Union, Passel Argente, and other Separatists. At the end of chapter 29 the word 'thought' is missing the 't' at the end. In chapter 33, the word 'a' is incorrectly written as 'an'. Opening crawl After a thousand generations of peace, the Galactic Republic is crumbling. On Coruscant, at the center of civilized space, greed and corruption riddle the Senate, beyond even the abilities of Supreme Chancellor Valorum to remedy. And in the outlying systems, the Trade Federation dominates the hyperlanes with its gargantuan vessels. But now even the Trade Federation finds itself assailed from all quarters, preyed upon by pirates and raiders, and victimized by terrorists, who demand an end to the Federation's tyrannical practices. It is a time that tests the mettle of all those who strive to hold the Republic together—none more than the Jedi Knights, who have long been the Republic's best hope for preserving peace and justice…