London, April 1878. Shadowhunters William Herondale and James Carstairs find the dead body of fourteen-year-old Emma Bayliss in an alley. They also find a dagger imprinted with two snakes each biting the other's tail, an ouroboros, probably the weapon with which she was murdered. Southampton, May. Tessa Gray arrives at the Southampton dock aboard the Main, expecting to find her brother Nathaniel waiting for her. Before, Tessa was living in New York with her Aunt Harriet, but her aunt had died recently and her brother asked her to come stay with him in London. At the port, Tessa finds the Dark Sisters, Mrs. Dark and Mrs. Black, instead of her brother, who have a letter from him saying that he could not meet her because of business, but that the sisters will bring her to him. Tessa goes with them. Six Weeks Later: Tessa has been held prisoner by the Sisters. They have been training her to Change (a process by which she takes on the appearance of someone else, living or dead, by holding something that belongs to them). This time Tessa becomes Emma Bayliss and relives her last few moments alive. The sisters are impressed and tell Tessa that they have been preparing her for an arranged marriage to a mysterious individual known as "the Magister." They expect the marriage to take place that day or the next. The sisters leave and Tessa tries to run away but is caught by the Sister's coachman. Tessa is tied to her bed, but she attempts to escape again by using the Change. Just as she escapes her bindings the door opens - It is William, who followed the trail from Emma's body to an organization called the Pandemonium Club and the Sister's house. Will and his friends proceed to help Tessa escape and when the Dark Sisters catch up a battle begins in which Mrs. Black is killed, and Tessa is knocked unconscious. Tessa awakens in the London Institute to find herself being examined by Brother Enoch, one of the Silent Brothers, who informs her that she is a shape-changer and a Downworlder. Tessa meets the inhabitants of the Institute. The next morning Jessamine takes Tessa shopping; Charlotte and Henry look for Tessa's brother; and Will and Jem inspect the Sister's house. They find a clockwork automaton wrapped in human flesh. A vampire named de Quincey is identified as the Magister and is said to have Tessa's brother, so Tessa and Will infiltrate one of de Quincey's parties. At his party de Quincey slowly drains a human victim; this is against the Accord, which allows the Shadowhunters to attack. Things go terribly wrong at the party when de Quincey's victim is revealed to be Tessa's brother Nathaniel. Tessa and the Shadowhunters kill the vampires at the party, save Nate and bring him to the Institute, but de Quincey escapes. Will bites him while fighting, and accidentally swallows some of the vampire blood. He and Tessa share a passionate moment when Will has to drink holy water because of his digesting vampire blood. The next day, Tessa and Jem go for a walk and are attacked by the Magister's clockwork army. They make it to the Institute, where the Shadowhunters are barely able to fight the army off, though Jem gets injured and passes out. While recovering, he admits to being addicted to a demon drug, which slowly drains him of life and weakens him. The following day, most of the Shadowhunters leave to kill de Quincy in his hideaway in Chelsea. Mortmain, the mundane who informed the Shadowhunters of de Quincey, comes back to the Institute to tell Will and Jem about the Dark sister who is trying to help the Magister with his army and her location. They rush off to kill her, leaving Nate, Jessamine and Tessa alone. Mortmain comes back with the clockwork army and reveals himself as the real Magister and Nate reveals himself as Mortmain's accomplice. While Thomas tries to fight the clockwork automatons off, Tessa, Sophie and later Jessamine escape to the Sanctuary, but Mortmain tricks them to open the door. Tessa agrees to marry Mortmain if he will leave everyone alone and not hurt anyone. Once the army has left the room Tessa stabs herself in the heart, leading to Mortmain's departure. Will rides back once he realizes he and Jem have been tricked, leaving Jem to ride the carriage with only one horse, slowing him down. When Will arrives at the Institute, he's just in time to witness Thomas' death and goes on to look for Tessa and the others. While Jem arrives, he runs straight into Nathaniel and his four clockwork automatons, two of them holding Jessamine and Sophie; one holding the Pyxis, a box that holds demon energies needed to revive the automatons. Nate orders the army to kill him - Jem can fight them off, but Nathaniel and the Pyxis can flee. During that, Will finds Tessa, who is really alive; she Changed quickly just before stabbing herself and the blood was from a gunshot victim she had Changed into before with the Sisters. Charlotte and Henry arrive as well, and ask Tessa to stay at the Institute and she happily accepts. Tessa wants to have a serious relationship with Will, but he suggests a strictly sexual relation and tells Tessa that she cannot have children (she is assumed to be a warlock) so it is impossible. Jem comforts her though she will not tell him exactly what Will did to upset her. Will seeks Magnus Bane's help, but it is not revealed for what reason.