Marty and Grace O'Hara were very different twins. After their journalist parents were lost in a helicopter crash, they went to their uncle's island. Dr. Laurel Lee arrived with a Mokélé-mbembé egg, a dinosaur thought to have gone extinct but is believed by some to still exist in the Congo. Laurel explained how she'd given the egg to Dr. Noah Blackwood, an evil man who collects rare and unique animals, but is portrayed as a sweet and caring person. Laural stole the egg back, but Blackwood was on the trail of Mokélé-mbembé. Wolfe and his team depart to the Congo, to protect his friend Masalito and Mokélé-mbembé. The twins where to be left at their boarding school until afterwards. But on the plane, Grace and Marty had to catch a run-away chimp in the supply shoot. They fell out when the luggage drop over Congo takes place. While they were stranded in the wilderness, Wolfe contacted them and told them to travel to a safe place, the Skyhouse, by Lake Télé and to wait for them, and explained that he needed to avoid Butch McCall, Blackwood's number one guy. The children forgot what Wolfe had said about Butch. Butch saw the children and spied on them, sending information back to Blackwood. Blackwood told him to find the girl. The children found the Skyhouse and Marty left shortly, leaving Grace behind. She climbed upstairs and knocked herself unconscious while Butch and his men kidnapped her and took her to their camp. Marty signaled Masalito and Marty realizes Butch must have kidnapped Grace. The twins realized that Grace was actually the daughter of Rose, Blackwood's daughter, and Wolfe, and that Wolfe had handed her to her cousin Marty's parents, the O'Haras. Marty and Masalito went to find Grace, and Wolfe and Laurel saw a note through a video feed in the Skyhouse. Grace's captors fell asleep, and Grace escaped. Grace and Marty met up and hurried into a tunnel in the trees and saw the body of Mokélé-mbembé, setting it on fire and collecting two eggs. Blackwood and Butch arrived. Marty had went upstairs and Grace was about to come up also. Butch tied Grace up, about put her into Blackwood's helicopter, and went to get Marty and the eggs. Marty forced Butch and Blackwood to hand out Grace. In the meantime, Dr. Lee and Wolfe has arrived at the cleaning. With Blackwood's helicopter, they fly out of the clearing.