Soon after the death of Matthew A. Sobol from brain cancer, a computer daemon is activated. Its first mission: to kill anyone and anything that stands in its way. Detective Peter Sebeck is called in to investigate the death of two programmers who worked for a computer game manufacturer, CyberStorm Entertainment. During his investigation, Peter meets and befriends Jon Ross who is a technology consultant. Unfortunately, their traditional investigation methods are useless against Sobol's Daemon program. The Daemon anticipates every move, seemingly one step ahead of anyone who tries to interfere with its operation. The program takes over thousands of companies and provides financial and computing resources for creating AutoM8s (computer controlled driverless cars, used as transport and occasionally as weapons), Razorbacks (sword-wielding robotic riderless motorcycles, specifically designed as weapons) and other devices. The sequel picks up shortly after the end of Daemon. Sobol's distributed AI has already infiltrated the computer systems of companies and many governments. While the Daemon is a technological creation, much of the work is carried out by human beings - eagerly doing their part to change the world according to the vision of Matthew Sobol. Connected by the "Darknet", these human followers create their own ranking system and economy. Meanwhile, the American political and economic system is collapsing, with the price of fuel and the unemployment rates both skyrocketing, and steady reports of violent drug gangs crossing the border from Mexico. In battling the Daemon, the government is forced into a difficult alliance with private corporations, giving rise to many private armies, some of whom are actually responsible for the attacks. The government is unaware that some corporate interests actually want the Daemon to survive - at least to use it selectively as a weapon against their rivals. Detective Sebeck, meanwhile, is sent on a "quest" by the avatar of the late Matthew Sobol, one in which he will have to determine the role of freedom to the human race.