In this section it sets up the mood for the whole book. In chapter one it sets the mood that Austin is a depressed person and is somewhat suicidal. It also introduces Austin and his two best friends Dobie and Curtis. In chapter 2 it shows Austin and his friends are football players. The chapter also gives more details about how they are. In chapter 3 it introduces Austins mom and Becky. Also it expresses how Austin feels about going to school, also how he is used to the routine he does every year to go to school. Chapter 3 show's Austin and his friends favorite spot which is Dairy Queen, also Austin and Heathers meet. In chapter 4 they talk about Heather and how Austin would end up with her, and how his friends feel about her. This chapter also sets the mood for Austin and Heather and how their first date happens. In chapter 5 they talk about Austin's first away game, and how it plays out. Chapters 6-9: In this section they go to a lot of places. In chapter 6 they go to a movie and dinner together, Austin and Heather. They go to Heather's house and he meets her mother. Then Austin goes home to his family. In chapter 7 they go to church on Sunday. Austin is there thinking about Heather and ask God to forgive me. In chapter 8 he is at home in his bed dreaming about him and Heather. Then he goes to school and have practice. After practice they are in locker room talking. Austin takes Curtis home them takes Heather home because she was waiting for him after practice on the truck. In chapter 9 his at home and Curtis comes over. In chapter 10 Austin talks about how he used to be the one to give Dobie rides home after his practices, but since he started to date Heather, Curtis takes Dobie home. It also talks about what him and Heather do after practice which is they go to the spot which happens to be Dairy Queen, and how they get their usual. They (Austin and Heather) have a conversation about what happened between Curits and Kat. Austin waits for Heather to brush her hair before going off, he said "This waiting for hair to be brushed - is the price of dating Heather". They sit in the car just hanging out for a while. Heather think Austin is mad at her when he really is not and she gives him oral sex to please him also in hopes that he will not be mad no more. Then two weeks later they have sex. In chapter 11 Austin plays in his sixth game, and Curtis ended messing up. Curtis gets bothered by this and he does not speak for a while. They are gonna go out that night and they invite Austin, but he's going to be to busy with Heather. In chapter 12 Curtis happens to be in the middle of Bull-in-a-Ring since he messed up the game in chapter 11. After Bull-in-a-Ring Austin does not know if he should help his best friend up or do as the couch said and go get ready to do sprints...He goes to do sprints. In chapter 13 Austin sits in Heathers room and watch's her get dressed. They just talk about the usual stuff. Heather ask's Austin to pass her a clip when he goes to find it he opened the wrong drawer and she gets mad, Austin stared at the note, it was from her father. Austin tell's her its okay to talk about her father to him, but she does not seem to want to open up. Soon Austin has to leave. In chapter 14 Austin and Heather get into a little argument, and then when they make up they go off to Dariy Queen. After that Austin wants to "please her" but she takes it the wrong way and goes off on him, and tells him all these mean things that make him depressed. In chapter 15 it talks about his ride home; lonely. When he arrives he goes all suicidel in the bathroom and is thinking about cutting himself, but Becky his little sister comes to the door with the phone, and it happens to be Heather on the line. She wants to talk so she ask's him to go over. He drives back over to her house. Chapters 16-19: In this section still going places. In chapter 16 Austin is at Heather's house and they are talking about what happened the other night. They talk about their pass and Heather cry's from her pass. In chapter 17 he was just leaving Heather's house they were holding each other and talking at 3 in the morning. At the game they won. Goes home and cannot sleep its Sunday and its 4:30 but her do not have to get up til 8. In chapter 18 his at school and has football practice again.Takes Dobie home then Heather. Austin went to Heather house and she told him it was over with them. In chapter 19 he is at home in his truck thinking. Then he goes to Curtis house and talk about him and Heather.