Despite the restriction the Willises had put on them for opening any more cupboards, which lies on the attic wall, Henry's and Henrietta's curiosity got the best of them. Unfortunately, when Henrietta was searching for the skeleton key, of which she was hiding from her little sibling, Anastasia, Henry was struck by a bolt of lightning and lost consciousness. Luckily, even though Henry was struck blind after the incident, he was uninjured with nothing but a scar on the palm of his hand. Henrietta was sceptical, and thought that Henry was faking his blindness. But, again, she was actually unsure of herself. Henry was immediately rushed to a hospital, but his symptoms weren't as severe as a victim getting struck by an authentic lightning bolt. On the other hand, faithful Richard assured them that Henry will never have failed his courage and exaggerate, unless if he wasn't acting and was injured. After the bumpy ride home, Henry was left alone to rest in his room. When Henry woke up, his skin felt all flaky, and the burn in his jaw, caused by the blood of Nimiane, singed his cranium. He then started to devise a plan involving Richard, instead of Henrietta, to travel with him through the cupboards in a search for his birth parents. While he was explaining his plan to Richard, Henrietta, secretly, listened in on their conversation. She couldn't feel but betrayed that her own cousin would not let her go with him. She decided to get back at Henry by grabbing Richard as he makes his way through the landing the next time he comes. Unfortunately, both of their brainstorming fails as Henry and Richard was abducted by Darius, an evil wizard. Impatiently, Henrietta waited for Richard until she was determined to go through the door from her grandfather's room to the secret realm herself. There, she was kidnapped by two short, but extremely strong men, and was taken to Magdalene, queen to the FitzFaeren. She wanted Henrietta to retrieve the three stolen items from her deceased grandfather, or if she refuses, Henrietta will be held as a prisoner as long as the objects used to thwart the evil Nimiane are regained. Henrietta absconded the queen's grasp by flinging herself out of a window. Cold and hungry, Henrietta followed a stream to Eli FitzFaeren's house. Henry was to be bearing Darius's mark, so that Darius and Henry can be branded by the same symbol, before Henry's christening, a ceremony in which the naming of the child occurs. What was unexpected in Darius's scheme was that the surgeon who was supposed to stigmatize them together felt pity for Henry, so he let Henry escape by drugging himself. When Darius entered the room, he was outraged by the boy's breakaway, when Henry was actually still in the room, only concealed by the door. Darius supposed that Henry had retreated back to Kansas, through the dimension he was from. Therefore, Darius used Richard as a ransom to the Willises for Henry. Meanwhile, Henry tried to slide through the pipe of the building, just in case if Darius was still in the premises from within. On the last flight of pipes, Henry fell, flying through the air, unable to cling onto anything sturdy. When he regained consciousness, he was on a bed in a draped room and sitting in front of him are a kind couple who rescued him from the incident. After, Henry was nurtured back to health, he went to the post office to go back through a cupboard and return to Kansas. But, when he arrived, nobody was there, and there was a note from Frank explaining what had happened when Darius had made an appearance and started torturing them. Meanwhile, Darius was called by the queen