The book is set in an unknown election year in the near future (dialogue suggests that it is either the 2016 or 2020 election). It begins at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, Illinois, where there has been an extremely tight race for the nomination over California Governor Robert W. Long and Senate Majority Leader Salmon Stanley, and there has been much controversy over the Virginia delegation for both candidates, and which one was legitimate under Primary Rules. Because of a last minute betrayal by Long supporter Tennessee Governor Terry Tinford to Stanley (under the impression he would be "seriously considered" as the VP nominee), Stanley is able to win the nomination with a razor thin margin 2,221 delegates to Long's 2,117. After an outraged Long rejects Stanley's proposal to be his running mate, he selects Governor of Pennsylvania Betsy Hafer as his running mate (much to Tinford's disgust). A stressed out Jay Noble (the campaign manager of Long) takes a vacation to Mexico, where he meets a very attractive Nicole Dearborn, a democratic activist. After spending several days in Mexico, he gets a call from Long, saying to meet him at the campaign headquarters because he is considering running as an Independent. Meanwhile, the Stanley campaign is suffering crippling blows by an FBI investigation over an alleged payment by the campaign to give favorable testimony to the credential committee regarding the Virginia delegation by campaign manager Michael Kaplan. Hafer also makes repeated gaffes on the campaign trail, much to Stanley's embarrassment. As this is going on, the Republican National Convention is set to get underway in Miami. Vice President Harris Flaherty is the nominee for the Republican Party, and he is debating whom to choose as his running mate. The President (who is never named) encourages Flaherty to make a smart decision for VP. Evangelical radio host Andy Stanton is meeting with top officials of the Flaherty campaign, attempting to encourage Flaherty not to pick Secretary of State David Petty as the VP, on the grounds that he is a pro-choice moderate who would infuriate the Evangelical vote. He then has a hostile meeting with Petty, only furthering his distaste for him. He is assured by campaign manager Bill Diamond that Petty will not be chosen. Stanton is satisfied, and waits for the announcement. Flaherty surprises everyone when he picks Petty, and an infuriated Stanton releases a statement criticizing Petty on certain issues the day he is set to make his acceptance speech. As the convention is set to get underway, Long officially announces his Independent candidacy, as succeeds in getting on the ballot in California. Because of this split within the Democratic party, Flahery has a 15 point lead over Stanley going into the convention, all but ensuring a landslide victory for the republicans. After the convention, a confident republican ticket emerges expecting victory going into the election. Unknown to either parties, Rassem El Zafarshan, an Iranian terrorist, is planning an assassination attempt on both members of the republican ticket. He succeeds in shooting down Marine Two and killing Flaherty, but Petty is in a bulletproof limousine at the time of the shooting. Zafarshan escapes the U.S., all but one terrorist is killed (the one is taken into custody), and the President debates on whether or not to invade Iran. As the nation mourns, a deeply divided republican party is split on whether or not to elevate Petty to the Presidency nomination. Senator Tom Reynolds, a deeply convicted conservative, originally emerges as the candidate for conservatives, but withdraws because of his desires to be selected as the running mate. Petty is nominated easily, but liberal Senator Ed Bell of Colorado is nominated as VP, and the conservatives walk out on Petty, stating that voting for Long is a serious possibility. The President appoints Petty as the Vice President. Meanwhile, Long sues the Texas Supreme Court for ballot access unsuccessfully, but is able to win in the Court of Appeals, effectively getting him on the ballot in all 50 states. In order to win the Evangelical vote, Long announces political veteran and Catholic Jonny Whitehead as his running mate, and changes his position to pro-life on abortion. After a phenomenal performance in the debates, Long wins the most electors, but does not win enough to win the election, so the election is forced to the United States House of Representatives. After the President chooses not to interfere in the House Vote, Long convinces West Virginia and Pennsylvania to cast their vote for him, giving him the Presidency. The Senate then gives the Vice Presidency to Whitehead over Ed Bell. Jay Noble decides not to want a job in the administration, and becomes an outside supporter. The book ends 14 days prior to Long's inauguration.