Book Review of Darkness before Dawn,book By: Sharon M. Draper by: anonymus Life after death is hard, and facing the world can be difficult, and in the way Sharon M Draper writes this book, Keisha, a high school senior, has experienced what most people think as “moving on”. Keisha’s ex-boyfriend, Andy, commits suicide after his best friend, Rob, dies in a car accident, leaving Keisha to wonder how life will be without them. She is desperate and sad, but then her senior year rolls around, bringing new opportunities and a fresh start. Her college student track coach, Jonathan, who also the principle’s son, falls in love with her and she quotes him as “really something” and “a lemon drop wrapped in licorice”. I don’t want to spoil the book so if you are interested, check it out yourself. The main character in this book is Keisha, who deals with her problems with the help of her friends, and opens her heart to the world. Her personality can be described as: positive, mature, and having a longing as to when she will finally be able to make her own decisions, away from the burden of her protective parents. There is also her many friends, who give her hope till the end . Her sweet and sassy best friend , Rhonda, Rhonda’s poetic boyfriend, Tyrone, past-Rob’s sister, Joyelle, Joyelle’s dancer best friend, Angel, Angel’s protective brother, Gerald, a new senior and Gerald’s girlfriend, Jalani, and lastly, the class clown, Leon. They all play a very strong role in helping Keisha get back on her feet, and walk stably, metaphorically speaking. Then there is Jonathan, the track coach and also the principle’s son, who messes up Keisha’s life in a way that creates forever scars that burn deep in her skin. He at first was appealing visually and emotionally, but in the end he became vain and conceited, following only in his own desires. If you like realistic fiction, romance, and life written out, then you will enjoy this book and read it over and over and over, as I did very pleasurably. However, if you are more into non-fiction and more informative things, you probably won’t appreciate this book, and will probably toss it away the moment you see it. But, in my own opinion, this book has turned out to be very amusing and was better than I thought it would be. links http://www.amazon.com/Darkness-Before-Dawn-Sharon-Draper/dp/0689851340 http://sharondraper.com/bookdetail.asp?id=10 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darkness_Before_Dawn