Narrated in the first person by one of the main characters, graphic artist Ed Gentry, the novel begins with four middle-aged men in a large Georgia city planning a weekend canoe trip down the fictional Cahulawassee River in the north Georgia wilderness. The river valley will soon be flooded by a dam to create a reservoir. Besides Ed, the protagonists are insurance salesman Bobby Trippe, soft drink executive Drew Ballinger, and landlord Lewis Medlock, an outdoorsman who is the driving force behind the canoe trip. The men drive into the mountains with two canoes. At a gas station in a mountain hamlet, Drew gets out his guitar and plays a duet with Lonnie, a banjo-playing, mentally deficient, inbred albino boy who is apparently a musical savant. After arranging with some local mechanics, the rough and forbidding Griner brothers, to drive the foursome's cars down to the fictitious town of Aintry, where the canoe voyage will end two days later, the men put into the river and begin their journey. After they shoot some initial rapids and the evening approaches, Ed begins to reflect on the isolation into which the group has now voyaged. The following morning, Ed awakens early and goes hunting with his bow and arrow. Sighting a deer, he shoots but misses, later explaining to Lewis that he broke psychologically at the last moment. Lewis expresses disappointment, and Ed grows a bit irritated at his friend's survivalist mentality. After breaking camp, Ed and Bobby then set out in one of the canoes slightly ahead of Lewis and Drew. After spending a night in the camp, Bobby has changed his mind about the outing and is chafing at Lewis's directions, so Ed takes him on as a canoe partner to keep the two apart. Later in the day, two mountain men, one of them carrying a shotgun, step out of the woods and accost them. The men force him and Bobby into the woods, tying Ed to a tree and cutting him with his own knife; then, in the book's most infamous scene, one of the mountain men sodomizes Bobby. Afterwards, the men untie Ed, and the other mountain man, handing his partner the shotgun, prepares to force Ed to perform oral sex on him. At the moment of the shotgun transfer, Ed hears the twang of a bow as Lewis, hidden in the woods, shoots Ed's assailant. Ed wrestles the gun away from the other man, and watches as the shot hillbilly slowly dies. There follows a heated discussion about what to do. Lewis wants to bury the body, arguing that if they report what has happened they might be put on trial in front of a jury consisting of the dead man's relatives. He is opposed by the law-abiding Drew, who wants to turn the body over to the police in Aintry. Bobby, humiliated and traumatized by his ordeal, physically attacks the corpse, then agrees to Lewis's plan, adding "I don't want this getting around." Drew desperately tries to persuade Ed to "do the right thing", but Ed ignores his pleas and sides with Lewis. The men bury the body and take to their canoes, with Ed and Drew now teamed up again. As evening begins to come on they enter a high gorge with powerful rapids, where Drew falls out of his canoe, both canoes are capsized, and Lewis emerges from the rapids with a badly broken leg. Lewis declares that Drew was shot. Ed is less certain, but he realizes that if the mountain man is indeed at the top of the gorge, he can shoot them all if they take to the river again. Ed decides he must climb the cliff to the top of the gorge and kill the mountain man with his bow. Ed briefs Bobby carefully about taking Lewis downriver in the remaining canoe at first light in order to avoid being shot. Ed then makes the grueling climb to the top of the gorge, climbs a tree, and waits for the rifleman. Early the following morning, a man appears, and as he spots the tree in which Ed is hidden, Ed shoots him. The rifleman fires at almost the same time, missing Ed, but knocking him from the tree. He is gored in the side by one of his own arrows as he hits the ground. He then tracks the rifleman and finds his dead body in a small clearing. He returns the body to the top of the cliff. As he does, he sees the canoe with Lewis and Bobby in it moving out into the river in the full light. Ed then lowers the body down the cliff and descends the rope himself, but it is not long enough to reach to the bottom. As Ed climbs down it breaks; the corpse lands on rocks, but Ed is able to kick against the cliff walls and propel himself into the river. After Ed castigates Bobby for not following his plans and brushes aside his excuses, the pair weight the corpse and sink it into the deepest part of the river. Ed, Bobby, and the badly injured Lewis then continue the journey in the remaining canoe. Below the gorge, they find Drew's body. Lewis, though in a bad way, examines his head and confirms that it had been grazed by a rifle bullet. Ed and Bobby then sink Drew's body, too, into the river, since they cannot allow medical examiners to see the wound. Ed threatens Bobby with death in order to get him to overcome his exhaustion and help. Some time later, the men arrive at Aintry, where they explain that they have suffered a canoeing accident. After a doctor stitches up Ed's wound, he and Bobby eat in a boarding house, but Ed then goes to the basement and takes a long shower in river water. Ed and Bobby believe that they have their story straight—Lewis feigns having few memories of the "accident" and thereby escapes questioning—but then the sheriff locates a piece of the shattered canoe above the point where they claimed to have had the accident and they have to modify their story quickly. Nevertheless, one deputy sheriff grows highly suspicious of them and tells the sheriff that his brother-in-law has been missing since the weekend, believing Ed, Bobby, and Lewis to have something to do with it. Nevertheless, the sheriff lets them go, with a warning not to return to Aintry. Ed returns to his city life, though changed, feeling a continuing connection with the river, which in reality has now ceased to exist with the dam's completion. He occasionally sees Bobby before the latter, his business failing, moves to Hawaii, but has little to do with him--"he would always look like dead weight and like screaming, and that was no good to me." Ed and his wife later buy a cabin on another dammed lake and Lewis, now with a permanent limp, buys a neighboring cottage. The novel ends by relapsing into the conventional patterns of city dwellers, almost as if nothing has changed, except for Ed's connection with the now-drowned river, which has made the rest of his conventional life tolerable.