It's January and everyone is back from break. Waverly gets a new dean, Dr. Dresden, and two new students, Isla and Isaac Dresden. Instead of a new semester commencing, Jan Plan takes effect. It is a four-week course where students work on their own independent projects. Junior's and Seniors tend to work on solo projects while everyone else are encouraged to work together. With permission from the dean (via help from Issac) Jenny starts an independent art project based on the two art classes she took the previous semester. Her goal is to experiment with motion, drawing people instead of taking a picture of them with a manual camera. She spends most of her time in the cafe drawing people coming and going. Heath and Brandon's project is based on Man vs. Wild. Heath plans to live outside for three-weeks on basic essentials and camping skills. No tent, basic sleeping bags, no electricity, not contact with the outside world, hunting their own food, gathering fire wood, and taking notes. They take up camp in Waverly's woods. Bradon leaves after a few days, and Heath stays until the night of the party when he is unexpectedly found by Easy. Brandon did not exactly agree to Heath's project. He was conned into it having just returned from Switzerland. During his break, which was paid for by Heath, he visited his girlfriend Hellie Dunderdorf with whom he lost his virginity. After quitting Heath's project he ends up working with Callie due to no other options. Callie and Brandon's project looks into the psychology of love. Callie selected this project to find more information about true love. Is there such a thing? Do you get over your first love? Can you love again? They do research and take a video survey with some of the Waverly girls. During the project Callie finds herself becoming attracted to Brandon (along with most of the other girls), who has more of a sexy unshaven look going on. At one point they end up kissing in his dorm room. Unfortunately, Brandon's webcam was on. Hellie saw the whole thing and promptly breaks up with him. Brett's project, like Brandon's, changes. Originally she was going to intern at Vogue thanks to her sister, Brianna. However, Leslie ends up not needing a new intern due to a promotion to Italian Vogue.She ends up returning to Waverly and joining Sebastian's "friend" Christine Bosley's Jan Plan project.