A girl named Jane Taylor lives with her family of five sisters (her, Mimi, Amelie, Emma, and Blythe). Her mother, Maude, is a medium. They live in the late 19th century America. Jane's father has recently died due to a shot through the heart, and her mother is in grief. The book begins as Maude Taylor, Jane's mother, is trying to contact a woman named Mary Adelaide from the spirit world and "speaks" to her. Mary Adelaide's sisters believe her, but Mary Adelaide's husband believes that Maude is a fraud. Mimi believes their mother to be a fraud because sometimes, they see her scribbling under the table when the lights are turned off, then pretending the spirit wrote them. Jane is under the influence of Mimi and admires her, so she believes it too. Mary Adelaide's sisters suggest that they move to Spirit Vale, a place where many spiritualists live. Maude and Grandma Taylor don't get along well, so they plan to move out. One day, they go to a park to meditate, and Mimi & Jane go for a walk suddenly,the ground starts spitting apart and shaking. An earthquake starts, buildings start shaking and Mimi gets a bad headache. But a man named Nikola Tesla rescues them, and they watch him smash a small device. He explains that he has been destroying things and this earthquake machine is one of his ideas. He believes that everything vibrates and at different frequencies, you can travel between time and different worlds. They are amused. Tesla becomes Jane's ultimate role model and collects newspaper clippings about him over the years. Maude moves them to Spirit Vale, where they are going to stay at the inn for a bit. The in is already fully booked, but, Maude "contacts" the husband of the inn's owner, Aunty Lily, and she lets them stay. In 1911, Mimi and Jane run away to New York, where Jane falls in love with Thad who is Tesla's assistant. Mimi gets a job as an assistant to a wealthy French woman, Ninette, and she goes to travel with her to Europe. When Jane has to get back to Spirit Vale, Thad learns thaat Jane is only 16, which means she's 4 years younger than him. He doesn't write to Jane like he promised her. Jane gets very sad over Mimi's departure and Thad. Maude is devastated and blames Jane for running away with Mimi and her departure. After Mimi has been gone for a while, she finally contacts her family while they are in London, Canada for a spiritual convention for mediums, psychics, etc. It is there that it is proven that the twins, Amelie and Emma, have their mother's gift of being able to speak to the dead after having Queen Victoria speak to Conan Doyle. Mimi reveals that she is going to be sailing on the Titanic, and Blythe wants to go with her. After much convincing, she is allowed to go. Mimi is in first class, and Blythe is in second class. When a man predicts that the Titanic will sink and Mimi and Blythe are on it, Jane, Amelie, and Emma get on it to try to talk them into getting off. Jane bumps into Thad, who is on the ship with Tesla, after Emma fainted. He is overjoyed to see her, and he tells her he made a mistake in not being with her.Jane, Amelie, and Emma are convinced the ship won't sink, so they stay on. Mimi announces that she will be having her wedding on the Titanic to her mistress's butler. Just before the wedding, Thad asks Jane to marry him. She says yes, but they don't tell anyone because she doesn't want to take the night away from Mimi. During the wedding, Telsa wants to show off his newest invention. It's supposed to break ice. Jane recognizes it as the earthquake machine. When he used it, it malfunctioned and the ice berg hit the ship. They start telling people to get on life boats. They realize that Amelie is missing, so Mimi, Jane, Emma, and Thad go looking for her. Telsa tells Thad and Jane to follow him. He says he has an invention that could save everyone. It's a time machine. Mimi finds Jane in the bottom of the ship with Telsa and Thad. She tells her to get on the life boats, but she stays. Telsa's machine partly works and Jane finds herself in the water. She sees a floating chair and she gets on it. She finds Amelie and Emma in the water. Telsa helps them up onto the over-turned table he was on. Mrs. Brown's life boat spots them and they pulled Emma and Amelie on board. Emma dies of hypothermia. Amelie had two broken legs and frostbite on her toes. No body can find Mimi or Thad. Amelie goes to the hospital. She starts to talk, but says that Emma is talking. Jane recalls Emma saying "I won't leave", just before she dies. 2 years pass by. Mimi and Thad, though no bodies were found, are said to have sunk. Jane, now 19, gets a job as a reporter. She sees a picture on a newspaper of two people that survived the sinking of the Titanic in the water all these years. Jane thinks they look like Thad and Mimi. She begs her boss to let her do this story, and he lets her. She goes to them and finds that they are Mimi and Thad. When they were in the time machine, it didn't send them a couple minutes into the future, it sent them a couple of years. Although to everyone else, Mimi and Thad had been gone years, to them it only seems like a few minutes. They all get on a train, and Jane reluctantly tells Mimi that her husband is dead. Jane and Thad ride back home together, where the book ends.