In this sequel in the Fudge' series, Fudge takes up an obsessive and greedy love for money and his family decides to take him to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington to show how money is made hoping that his obsession would stop there. That plan doesn't work, and instead they meet up with their long-lost cousins, the Howie Hatchers. There is Howie, a park ranger who resides in Hawaii and is traveling the country, his pregnant wife Eudora, their perfect, slightly overindulged twin daughters Flora and Fauna who are sometimes nicknamed the "Natural Beauties," and the "Heavenly Hatchers," and last but not least, three-year-old Farley Drexel Hatcher, which is also Fudge's real name. The boys are left alone with their cousins and find out that the Natural Beauties have been trying to find a nickname for Farley and try to use Fudge's own nickname. He tries to save his nickname from being taken by the Natural Beauties for Farley's own use by yelling and gets bitten in the leg. After the two are broken up, Peter suggests the natural beauties call Farley "Mini-Fudge," but when the other Fudge disagrees, the name is changed to Mini-Farley. Peter is having a rough time throughout this because his best friend Jimmy has left Manhattan and moved far off to the SoHo section of New York City. He still goes to the same school but Peter feels lonely. Fudge begins to start hating Mini, and the Natural Beauties then annoy Peter more when they are invited to perform at an assembly at his school. Mini lets Uncle Feather, Fudge's myna bird who has stopped talking out of his cage and he has a near-death incident (which causes him to begin talking again, although it is never explained why he stopped in the first place), Fudge goes trick-or-treating with Mini on Halloween and they get stuck in a elevator. Near the end of the story, in a semi-homage to the ending of the original Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing, Mini swallows Fudge's baby tooth that just fallen out. The Howies quickly depart from the Hatchers' apartment because he was throwing a fit, and after writing a note to the Tooth Fairy to explain what happened, he still tries to get some more Tooth Fairy money by using a box of Peter's old baby teeth. He takes it back and places it under his own pillow because, as Peter says, "Hey, you never know