After the Companions help the slaves escape and kill the Dragon Highlord Verminaard, the Companions lead the refugees into a defendable valley for the winter. Debate begins on what to do next; whereas some would prefer to wait out winter in the valley, others feel the proximity to Pax Tharkas leaves them too vulnerable to attacks from the dragonarmies. With rumours and legends of the dwarven kingdom of Thorbardin present in their minds, the Companions set out in search of some entrance to the fabled kingdom. Raistlin, Caramon, and Sturm head to Skullcap, while Flint and Tanis head towards a secret dwarven pass leading to Thorbardin. Finding an enchanted helm, Sturm unlocks the key to entering the dwarven kingdom, While Tanis and Flint find a path for the refugees to follow to the gates of Thorbardin. The refugees are driven on the path, led by Riverwind, when the dragonarmy attacks their camp. The refugees flee into a mountain pass and, utilizing an old dwarven trap, close the pass so that the dragonarmy cannot follow. The Companions, meanwhile, enter the gates of Thorbardin and are immediately captured by a group of dwarves who are horrified to see the enchanted helm that Sturm uncovered in Skullcap, proclaiming that it is cursed. They arrest the heroes under suspicion of being the vanguard of an invading army, and take them before the dwarven council. All is not as it seems as some of the dwarven council are under the influence of the dragonarmy and are supplying the army with much needed steel for weapons. The heroes are placed under arrest, and Flint is persuaded to help Arman Kharas, the self-proclaimed reincarnation of the dwarven hero Kharas, to retrieve the legendary Hammer of Kharas, with the caveat that his friends be released regardless of what happens to him. Tanis, Sturm, Caramon and Raistlin fake death after the dwarven guards give them poisoned mushrooms for their dinner, and manage to overcome the draconians and dwarves that examine the 'corpses'. Taking the draconian as proof of the dragonarmy at the doorstep of Thorbardin, they manage to show the thane of the Hylar clan of the conspiracy between the Theiwar, Daergar and the dragonarmy before the draconian escapes. Meanwhile, Arman Kharas and Flint, followed by Tasslehoff Burrfoot, enter the sacred valley of thanes to retrieve the Hammer of Kharas from the tomb of Kharas. Flint struggles internally over the fate of the Hammer, as it is needed to forge the legendary dragonlances, but can also unite the dwarven clans under one leader, putting to rest the risk of civil war developing in the kingdom. Retrieving the Hammer, Flint, Arman and Tasslehoff join the dwarven thanes in the Temple of the Stars, only to be attacked by draconian forces, allied with the Theiwar dwarves. The dwarven forces, supported by the disillusioned Daergar clan, overcome the invading draconians and, regaining the Hammer, the icon of their race, graciously provide the human refugees with shelter.