This book tells about how death is a part of life. Comfort Snowburger's Aunt Florentine dies in her garden, and her Uncle Edisto dies the day had planned a picnic. Comfort is very worried about her next funeral, which will be her 248th, and whose it will be. She is also annoyed with the burden of having to care for her cousin, Peach, after the funeral. After a while, this is when Comfort realizes that her true friend had been there all along with Peach. All Comfort wants to do now is hide in her closet with Dismay. However, Comfort, Peach and Dismay are caught in a flash flood at the cemetery, and struggle to stay above water on an oak tree. Comfort tells Peach to let Dismay go, but Peach doesn't hear her, submerged underwater. Comfort pries Peach’s fingers off of Dismay's collar, leaving the dog to float down the stream alone. Dismay's collar is found by Declaration close to a drainage ditch near Lake Tallyhoma. Knowing he is dead, Snapfinger holds a memorial service for Dismay,but Declaration and Comfort are still upset with each other. Main Characters: *Comfort Snowberger is the 10 year old main character of the series, and the whole book is told from her point of view. Her family owns the Snapfinger funeral home. *Merry Snowberger is Comfort's little sister. *Tidings Snowberger is Comfort's older brother. *Uncle Edisto Snowberger is Comfort, Tidings, and Merry's great uncle. *Great Aunt Florentine is Comfort, Tidings, and Merry's great aunt who loves studying Snapfinger. *Peach Shuggars is Comfort's 8-year-old cousin. At the beginning, he is described as a spoiled and annoying little boy, who ruins every family occasion. However, throughout the book, he shows his sensitive side. *Declaration Johnson is Comfort's best friend from the beginning of the book. Her father owns the company which makes the local newspaper called, "The Aurora Country News". However, halfway through the story, Declaration made friends with mean, snobby, and very spoiled other girls, and alienated Comfort, leaving her alone. After Dismay's incident, Declaration wanted to befriend Comfort again, but Comfort becomes upset and rejects her pleas. *Dismay is a Black Labrador that Comfort got as a gift for her 4th birthday and gained everyone's love very quickly. Dismay dies in chapter 20, and Comfort and Peach are very upset.