The book is set in 1999 (25 years in the future, as seen from 1974) and consists of the diary entries and reports of William Weston, a mainstream media reporter who is the first proper American to investigate Ecotopia, a newly formed country that broke from the USA in 1980. Prior to Weston's investigative reporting, most Americans had not been allowed to enter the new country, which is depicted as being on continual guard against revanchism. The new nation of Ecotopia consists of Northern California, Oregon and Washington; it is hinted that Southern California is a lost cause. The book is presented as a combination of narrative from Weston's diary and dispatches that he transmits to his publication, the mythical Times-Post. Together with Weston (who at the beginning is curious about, but not particularly sympathetic to the Ecotopians), the reader learns about the Ecotopian transportation system and the preferred lifestyle that includes celebrating gender roles, official encouragement of maintaining racial separation, discouraging monogamy, promoting sexual freedom. A disdain for television and mass-spectacle sports is manifested in a preference for local arts, participatory sports, and general fitness. The Ecotopians also have a peculiar ritual of (voluntary) mock warfare, fought with actual weapons and often resulting in injuries. Liberal cannabis use, as well as about decentralized and renewable energy production, green building construction, a defense strategy focused both on developing a highly advanced arms industry while also allegedly maintaining hidden WMD within major US population centers to discourage reconquest. Thorough-going education reform is described, along with a highly localized system of universal medical care. (The narrator discovers that Ecotopian healing practices may include sexual stimulation.) The narrative is told through both Weston's official cables back to the United States and through his diary which he keeps and later sends to his editor at the end of his assignment. In the diary we learn of observations he does not include in his columns, including his personally transformative love affair with an Ecotopian woman. These parallel narrative structures allow the reader to see how his internal reflections, as recorded in his diary, are diffracted in his external pronouncements to his readers. Despite Weston's initial reservations, throughout the novel, Ecotopian citizens are characterized as clever, technologically resourceful, emotionally expressive and even occasionally violent, but also socially responsible, patriotic. They tend to live in ethnically separated localities, and they live in extended families. Their economic enterprises are entirely employee-owned and -controlled. The government is dominated by a woman-led but not exclusively female party, and government structures are highly decentralized. The novel concludes with Weston's finding himself enchanted by Ecotopian life and deciding to stay in Ecotopia as its interpreter to the wider world.