Embassytown takes place mostly in the title city, on the planet Arieka. Embassytown exists on the very edge of the "Manchmal" (from the German for "sometimes"), which is suspected to be the third iteration of the known universe, and which, given its distance from everything else, is only accessible by sailing through the "Immer" (from the German for "always"), a permanent universe with differing concepts of time and space. Avice Benner Cho is an "Immerser", a traveller on the Immer, who has returned to her childhood home from her adventures in the "Out". Arieka is a planet on which humans and "exots", a term for exotic extra-terrestrials, co-exist with the indigenous, enigmatic Ariekei — otherwise known as the Hosts. Few people can speak the language of the Hosts (which is referred to only as Language) as it requires the orator to speak two words at once; those who can are genetically-engineered linguist twins known as Ambassadors, bred solely for this purpose. The Ambassadors speak with two mouths and one mind and as such can be understood by the Ariekei, who do not recognise any other form of speech, allowing for trade in their valuable technology. Embassytown is a colony of a nation called Bremen; and these trade goods, along with Embassytown's unique position at the edge of the universe, mean that it is a colony of vital importance to them. The relationship between humans and Ariekei has proceeded in relative tranquillity for many years, however when a new Ambassador arrives, named , who has not been genetically engineered to speak Language, yet can still manage to, everything changes. The speech of the new, Bremen-engineered, Ambassador intoxicates the Hosts and results in the entire Ariekei population becoming addicted to the Ambassador's speech regardless of what is said, to the extent that they cannot live without it. * Avice Benner Cho — Embassytown native and Immerser, husband to Scile and lover of CalVin. * Scile — non-native linguist and husband to Avice; believes that Language should remain as it is regardless of the consequences. * (or CalVin) — Ambassador of high standing, lover of Avice Benner Cho. * (or MagDa) — head Ambassador. * (or EzRa) — new, Bremen engineered, Ambassador consisting of two non-identical people. Also known as the "God Drug". * Bren — ex-Ambassador still living in Embassytown and advisor to Avice, one half of the "cleaved" Ambassador BrenDan. * Ehrsul — an "autom" (from automaton), best friend of Avice. * Wyatt — Bremen's contact on Embassytown. * Hasser — a human "simile" used by the Ariekei as part of Language. Killer of . * (or Beehive) — the most successful Ariekei liar ever. Is murdered by Hasser during the Festival of Lies. * Spanish Dancer — an Ariekei with markings reminiscent of a Spanish dancer who is interested in the similes and a follower of . * YlSib (formerly ) — ex-Ambassador living in the Host city; Bren's contact.