In the far, cold Northern Isles, the fox captain, Vizka Longtooth, sights a lonely farmhouse. Wanting plunder, he orders the crew of his ship, the Bludgullet to set ashore. The inhabitants of the farmhouse: the badger Gorath and his grandparents, were from the far south, escaping vermin and war. They had dreamed of going to the legendary havens Redwall Abbey and Salamandastron for peace. However, ill winds destroyed this dream, stranding them on the Northern Isles. Meanwhile, at Salamandastron, the Badger Lord Asheye has a prophecy that an unknown badger(which turns out to be Gorath) will succeed him in autumn. He sends a local troublemaker, Maudie (the Hon.) Mugsberry Thropple to search for the badger. Leading a series of events, Maudie finds herself trapped by sand lizards. At Redwall Abbey, a young hedgehog called Orkwil Prink is expelled from the abbey due to thieving. After a mean watervole tricks him, his luck quickly plummets when he finds himself without supplies and trapped in a swamp. Vizka, his brother Codj and the Sea Raiders have captured Gorath. Codj locked Gorath's grandparents inside the farmhouse and burned it. Gorath swears to kill Codj, and the crew soon realize he's a dangerous beast when he kills a taunting weasel.The ambitious Vizka decides to recruit Gorath into his crew. Maudie, meanwhile, has been rescued from the sand lizards by an owl named Asio Bardwing, who believed Maudie was a magic beast. He agrees to lead her to the Guosim shrews who'll take her to Redwall, where Lord Asheye ordered her to go. They find the Guosim in the midst of celebration. However, soon a baby shrew is kidnapped by an adder. Maudie, Asio and Log-a-Log Luglug find the adder. However, Asio is killed when rescuing the shrew. Vizka soon realizes that Gorath would rather die than join his crew, so he simply starves him. However, before Gorath dies, Codj captures Orkwil, who befriends Gorath. Being a thief, Orkwil soon frees himself and Gorath. During the escape, Gorath kills Codj. Maudie and the Guosim are being tagged by another vermin band: the Brownrats headed by the fat Gruntan Kurdly, who wanted the shrews' logboats. After meeting up with Barbowla the otter, his holt and Rangval the Rogue, a Guosim baby named Yik goes missing. Maudie and Luglug find Yik captured by the Brownrats. They rescue him, but Luglug is killed in the process. Gorath and Orkwil have made it to Redwall and had warned Abbot Daucus and Skipper Rorc of the Sea Vermin. They are then joined by Rangval, the Boulderdogs and the Guosim. Maudie appears later, bringing Yik and the sad news that Luglug was killed. His son Osbil becomes the new Log-a-Log and swears revenge on the Brownrats. Vizka had captured the mean vole and ordered him to disguise himself to gain entrance to Redwall, which he wants to conquer. This scheme fails, and the vole is captured by the Redwallers. He then decides to tunnel his way in. However, his crew encounters the scouts of the Brownrats, who chase them to the north. Gorath has seen Vizka besieging the Abbey and gets restless. He escapes during the middle of a feast and Orkwil, Rangval and Maudie attempt to find him. However, just as they were setting out, the vole kills Sister Atrata, the Healer, and steals the Sword of Martin. The Bronrats capture a Sea Vermin named Magger. When they were thinking of taking him to Kurdly, Gorath sweeps in, killing hordes of Brownrats. In the confusion, Magger escapes. He soon encounters the vole and kills him, stealing the sword and returns to Vizka. Vizka, however, kills him because he wanted the sword. Beforehand, Orkwil, Maudie and Rangval were captured by Vizka. After Vizka leaves 3 vermin to guard them, they easily overpower them and escape, knowing that Vizka has Martin's sword. Gorath, after the attack of Bloodwrath, faints, When he comes round, he finds company with two badgers, Salixa and her mentor: the Tabura. They return to Redwall, where Gorath and Salixa leave the Tabura. They soon are surrounded on top of a plateau with the Guosim, Barbowla and no rations. Maudie, Rangval and Orkwil, disguised as vermin, have a harrowing encounter with the two stoats Bilger and Jungo. They are able to worm out of trouble but Orkwil disappears. Maudie and Rangval join Gorath's army on the plateau. Gruntan Kurdly, meanwhile, has met his demise when he tried to rob a swan's egg. Osbil then kills Stringle, his father's murderer and the Brownrats' only other officer. Vizka takes control of the Brownrats and orders them to besiege the plateau. Just as Gorath's army were about to be annhilalated, Orkwil reappears leading a horde of Redwallers. They kill the Brownrats and the Sea Raiders, but Vizka and five vermin escape. Gorath pursues Vizka through Mossflower Wood. Vizka's vermin desert him because he killed two of them. Furious, Vizka returns to the Bludgullet. However, Gorath is already there and kills Vizka in an amazing fight with his friends watching. The Bludgullet is renamed the Eulalia and Gorath, Salixa, Orkwil, Maudie, Rangval and the Guosim sail down the River Moss to Salamandastron, where Lord Asheye gives the title of Badger Lord to Gorath. In the celebrations that follow, Lord Asheye realizes that it is near autumn and that he must depart Salamandastron. To cheer Asheye up, Salixa sings a song that the Tabura composed. Asheye suddenly recognizes the song, and realizes the Tabura is his long-lost brother Melutar. Asheye and his friend Major Mullein sail to Redwall.