At a weekend party at Farthing House, a large country house in Hampshire, Sir James Thirkie, a prominent politician who is considered likely to become a leading minister in an upcoming cabinet shuffle, is found murdered in his room, with a yellow Star of David pinned to his chest. Though suspicion immediately falls upon David Kahn, the only Jew invited to the party, the lead investigator, Inspector Peter Carmichael, is unconvinced. Carmichael, who along with Sergeant Royston was sent from Scotland Yard to investigate the murder, suspects that the star was placed on the body to divert attention towards David. Equally skeptical is David's wife Lucy, the daughter of estate owner Lord Eversley, who notes the tension between Thirke's newly-pregnant wife, Angela, and Angela's sister, Daphne, who was having an affair with Thirke. As Carmichael begins his investigation, he requests that the assembled guests remain at the house. Chafing at the oppressive atmosphere, Lucy accepts an offer from her father to go riding; while out, they are attacked by a young man, who shoots at them with a rifle before being killed by Lord Eversley. An inspection of the body uncovers a membership card identifying him as a Communist and an identity card for an Alan Brown, a different name from the one on the party ID. Carmichael is puzzled by the incident, which seems unconnected to Thirke's murder. As pressure grows for Carmichael to release the guests, a search of the Kahns' apartment turns up letters that offer evidence of David's involvement with an underground Jewish organization that sought the murder of Thirke and the other members of the "Farthing Set". Aware that an arrest will mean the effective conviction of David Kahn, yet still not convinced of his guilt, Carmichael convinces him to remain at Farthing House under police supervision. Returning to London, Carmichael is given until Friday to conclude the case. His ability to act is further hampered by the political situation, as Mark Normanby, Daphne's husband, the Foreign Secretary, and one of the guests in attendance at Farthing House, emerges from the cabinet shuffle as Prime Minister. Exploiting both Thirke's murder and the shooting incident, Normanby announces the introduction of identity cards, the expulsion of foreign nationals, the banning of Communists, and a delay in the general election. Resisting political pressure to arrest David Kahn, Carmichael pursues his investigation of Angela Thirke, discovering that her baby was likely the result of an affair with the family's chauffeur. Locating Brown's girlfriend, a young woman named Agnes Timms, in Southend-on-Sea, he travels there with Royston to interview her, whereupon they discover that Brown was approached by Angela Thirke to stage the attack on Lord Eversley, ostensibly as a joke. Returning to London, Carmichael learns that the yellow star was purchased by someone claiming to be David Kahn. With a warrant now issued to arrest David, Carmichael calls to warn the Kahns, giving them time to escape. With the Kahns now on the run, Carmichael goes to Wales to interview Thirke's mother, who recounts Angela Thirke's admission that she helped Lord Eversley and Mark Normanby murder her husband. While returning to London to arrest Angela and Normanby, however, Carmichael discovers that Agnes Timms has been murdered. Undaunted, Carmichael presents his findings to Penn-Barkis, the head of Scotland Yard, identifying the involvement of the three suspects in a conspiracy to murder Thirke and place the blame on the Jews for it. After listening to Carmichael's description, though, Penn-Barkis orders Carmichael to drop the case, using Carmichael's homosexuality to blackmail him into acquiescing in the official story.