JJ, who works at a restaurant managed by Florian, meets with a group of kids hanging out at the parking lot of the restaurant. The kids tell him that in order to join their club, called "The Killers," he has to kill someone. A few days later, JJ meets with them again and proclaims that he killed Florian. He later proceeds in shooting someone in that group with blanks, Bony, who falls down at impact, leaving JJ to believe that he killed Bony. After Bony gets up and informs him that the act was just a joke; that the rest of the group was in on it and it was JJ's initiation to the club, Julie, who works with JJ at the restaurant, approaches them and informs them that someone shot and killed Florian. On Halloween night a young, cocky man tries to seduce a seemingly shy, young girl. In the end his intentions change and they both are not who they seem. Phil Boreidae and his family move to Lectus, where they hear about the disappearances that occur when Lectus gets too overcrowded from a girl named Etchenia. Soon, the population begins to rise and one day, they hear that everyone at the north end of Lectus has been wiped out and about a strange light that had appeared in the sky. An astronomer, Schroeder Peterson, suggests they were being visited by God. That night, a force pulls Phil's sister, bothers and mother in the air, leaving him, his father and several others left on Lectus. His father volunteers to go to the mysterious light, and disappears after going towards it. Hannah and her family move to Entrails, Michigan, where their next door neighbor, Rebecca Perfect, offers Hannah a babysitting job for the night. During the babysitting job, Hannah notices the kids acting strangely, and after hearing someone call her name, she goes to investigate. This crying leads Hannah to a tiny room behind a mirror, where she finds the source of the crying: a baby monitor with a video screen. After finding the cage that the baby had been located in, she topples into the cage and is trapped inside with a doll that looks like her. In the end, the littlest Perfect appears outside of the cage with a key. Dax's younger brother, Jon, is afraid of the dark and that the shadow people will come and get him if the lights are out. So one night Dax lets Jon lay in the dark terrified and is about the find out that the shadow children are real, very real. The ring is poison the ring is stolen. ===Jeepers Peeper iney Powe he Night Hunte uitio agge ay Gun===