The novel begins with the four and their dog Timmy, having the worst Christmas holidays ever with coughs and colds at Julian’s house. To recover Julian’s mother sends them to a farmhouse, in the Welsh mountains during the last week of their holiday. The Five had nearly reached their destination, when they get lost in the dark and drive up a dead-end driveway leading to a large and strange old building called "Old Towers" on the top of the lonely hill. They think of asking for directions but seeing the building and grounds being protected by huge gates and snarling dogs, they hurriedly depart. However, while going down the slope their car feels heavier than before, as if someone/something is pulling it back. Finally, they reach the farmhouse where they meet Mrs. Jones, the owner of the farmhouse. The next morning when the five come down for breakfast they meet Mrs. Jones son, Morgan. They find Morgan to be as strong as ten elephants, his voice can be heard from miles away and his seven dogs are as furious as him. When the five go for a walk that day Timmy gets bitten by three savage farm dogs which prompts George to resolve to leave the next day. Leaving George, Anne and Timmy in the farm house, the boys spend the day at a hut on the hills. On the way back,they meet a wild little girl in rags, Aily with her dog named Dai and her lamb, Fanny. Aily is a shepherd’s daughter. Mrs. Jones however dislikes Aily and asks Julian AND Dick to stay away from her. Julian and Dick share their experience with George and Anne and they decided to spend their holidays at the hut instead of the farm. They enjoy their day at the hut, but at night strange sounds and vibrations come from the "Old Towers". Next day they decide to meet the caretaker of old towers who tells them that no one lives there. But at night they come across people at the old towers which turns them suspicious about the whole affair. The Five decide to seek the help of Aily as she roamed about the hills and perhaps to the Old Towers too. Aily slowly becomes friends with the Five and gives them information about how the owner of old towers lives with many other people.Once when she had spotted the owner dropping a piece of paper out of a window, Aily had picked it up but as she didn’t know how to read or write, she didn't know what to do with it. She hands it over to the five and to their astonishment the note reads “I’m kidnapped in my own house. Please call the police”. On reading this they think of rescuing the owner, but Aily refuses to take them to the old towers. On seeking Morgan's help, he snatchs the note from them and tells them not to interfere with this. Thus, Aily agrees to take them to the old towers. She takes them to a pothole which led to a tunnel leading to the old towers. They met the owner and asked her why she was kidnapped she said that there was a very precious metal with magnetic properties beneath the hill. While getting out of there they spot Morgan and the shepherd on a rescue mission. But all are spotted by the kidnappers, Morgan calls to his dogs who help in the rescue. When all of them return to the farm they find a party being arranged as it is Morgan’s birthday.