The Antichrist has assembled the armies of the world in the Valley of Megiddo for what he believes will be his ultimate triumph of the ages. With a victory here, he would ascend to the throne of God. The Tribulation Force has migrated to the Middle East, most ensconced at Petra with the Jewish Remnant, now more than a million strong. Petra is surrounded by the Unity Army, poised to destroy all that is left of God's people and usher in Nicolae Carpathia's new world order. The world holds its breath as the greatest military battle to ever take place threatens to obliterate all that remains of humanity. All seems lost. Tsion Ben-Judah and Buck Williams have been slain in Jerusalem, now overrun by Global Community forces. The hour of attack for Nicolae Carpathia’s Global Community Unity Army to assault the Rebels at the Temple Mount draws near. The seventh and final Bowl Judgement comes in the form of the greatest earthquake ever measured, followed by a rain of hailstones. Rayford Steele is the only original member of the Tribulation Force alive, and he's severely injured and on the brink of death. The sign of the Son of Man, a large Cross of lightning, appears over the global skyline for the whole world to witness. In addition, people who were sick and disabled were healed, and those who were formerly undecided were on their knees crying out for God to save them. This does not dissuade the enemies of God, as the Unity Army, led by Antichrist himself, makes their final charge against Petra, seeking to annihilate all remaining rebels to the Global Community. But suddenly, when all seems lost, the entire planet is covered in shadowless light and Jesus Christ returns to Earth in power and glory followed by the armies of heaven, slaying the armies of the Global Community with the Word of God in the four final battles of the Apocalypse, leading to a final confrontation with Antichrist in Jerusalem. Once the Global Unity Army has been destroyed, Jesus Christ sets foot on the Mount of Olives and sets up his kingdom in Jerusalem, where he proceeds to sentence The Beast (Bible) (Nicolae Carpathia) and his False Prophet (Leon Fortunato) to eternity in the lake of fire for the atrocities they committed against the entire world. Thereafter, Christ condemns Lucifer to 1,000 years in the abyss. In the newly formed Valley of Jehosaphat, Jesus condemns the last of the unbelievers and those who received the Mark of the Beast, cleansing the world for the beginning of his thousand-year reign. Those who were Raptured or martyred return to Earth to be reunited with their loved ones, and Paradise is ushered in. Believers from all over the world finally reunite in Jerusalem after the long seven years of the Tribulation and welcome the dawn of the Millennium World.