Anaxandra is the daughter of Chrysaor, a chieftain who rules of an uncharted island. When Nicander, king of the island Siphnos, comes to demand a tribute, he takes Anaxandra to be his daughter Callisto’s playmate. Unable to return home, she comes to love the small island of Siphnos and lives there for six years with Nicander's family. When pirates attack the island, Nicander and his family are killed while Anaxandra survives by scaring off the pirates by pretending to be Medusa. Found by Menelaus, king of Sparta, Anaxandra assumes the identity of Princess Callisto, believing that Menelaus will otherwise abandon her to her doom. Brought into Menelaus's household in Sparta, all the members of his family welcome her, except Menelaus’s beautiful wife, Helen. Suspicious of "Callisto," Helen's animosity towards Anaxandra places her in greater danger than ever. When Menelaus leaves for Crete to repay its king for slaves, Paris, a prince of Troy arrives to plunder Sparta's treasury and takes an eager Helen away with him. To save Helen's daughter Hermione from leaving, Anaxandra takes her place and soon becomes the sole protector of Helen's infant son, Pleisthenes. Upon arriving in Troy, Anaxandra is exposed again by Helen, who will stop at nothing to make Anaxandra suffer and neglects her own son in favour of her new life as the bride of Paris. Helen is quickly beloved by all of Troy, save Paris's sister Cassandra who has foreseen that Helen will destroy the city but is cursed so her prophecies will never be believed. In spite of her suffering, Anaxandra befriends Andromache, the bride of Prince Hector, and Cassandra. When Menelaus learns that Paris has stolen Helen and the treasures of Sparta, he calls upon his brother Agamemnon and all of Helen's former suitors who have sworn to defend his honour and to declare war upon Troy. As Helen revels in the war that will occur for her sake, Anaxandra finds herself falling in love with Euneus, the neutral king of Lemnos who is a friend of Hector. Torn between her love of Troy and her loyalty to Menelaus, Anaxandra must find a way to rescue Pleisthenes and return the young prince to his father before Troy is destroyed.