Gracey and her friend Angela are spending their last holidays in Cunningham. Gracey and Angela have been best friends ever since Gracey started attending Hamilton College in Brisbane on an athletics scholarship. She is a very talented runner and her family has a list of sporting achievements. For example, her brother (older), Raymond, is a star rugby player who has a contract with a club in Sydney. Dougy, Gracey's other (younger) brother, saved Gracey from losing her life in the floods that raided their town of Cunningham. Dougy and Gracey have a complicated relationship but mostly, Dougy loves his sister and Gracey is ever-thankful for Dougy when he saved her life. While playing in some trenches dug up for the building site which is building the new town hall, Dougy comes across some bones. He finds two arms and a skull. The bones appear to Dougy to be human bones. As a collector of many things, Dougy takes the bones with him in his billy cart to show his friends. He does not reveal to them where he found them as he does not want them to go looking for more. His friends are very interested and they tell Dougy not to take them to the police. Dougy was never thinking of such. When he takes the bones home and shows Gracey and Angela the next morning, they are horrified and disgusted. Gracey strongly sudgests that they take them to the police and Angela agrees with her. Dougy is hesitant of the idea and protests that they will take them away from him but Graceys tell Dougy that she and Angela will come with him to the police station. Dougy agrees to go and they take them to the police. The bones are taken away from him and after many arguments, Dougy admits that he found them at the building site. The police investigate and discover more and more bones. Cunningham instantly becomes the number one destination for the news crews, reporters and is on the front page of any media. Gracey is annoyed at Dougy's discovery and is egar to leave Cunningham and go back to Hamilton with Angela on the train Angela protests and is enjoying the whole discovery of the bones. As Gracey and Angela leave for Brisbane, Dougy is nowhere to be seen at the train station to wave them off and Gracey is very sad at the fact. She is glad to be back at Hamilton and escapes into the community of the white girls. Gracey's English teacher gives, upon request, a few books on aboriginal history and deaths. Gracey is, at first, not very interested in these books, or really, aboriginal history in general. All she wants is to fit in and be a "white girl". However, Gracey's perspective soon changes as she skips on of her special athletics trainings at QE II Stadium to go to a the Oxford Library to search for more information. She finds out that the bones were from a group of Australian Aborigines who were living in a small camp near the town of what is now Cunningham. These men had been shot by a man named Stan McNamara and his men. They shot these men as they had been "stealing" from them. They had buried the men in a pit and that was he bones that Dougy and the police had uncovered. She realised that Bert Mc Soon after Dougy finds them Gracey and Angela go back to Hamilton College in Brisbane. Gracey does some research and finds that a white man named Stan has killed the aboriginals. Gracey also finds out that Stan's son, Burt, still lives in Cunningham. Gracey also realised that Bert was the man who had been watching over the building site as it progressed, she thought that he must have know that the bodies were they and that there was a chance the builders would discover the bones. Gracey begins to be increasingly interested in the bones situation and she realises that she doesn't fit in with the other white girls and when news that Gracey's mother died, it pushes Gracey to leave Hamilton and return home to Cunningham. Raymond and Dougy are involved with the police when a violent outbreak occurs over a feud when information about Bert and his grandfather Stan murdering the Aboriginals results in both the men bought to the watch house. Raymond, confused and deeply depressed, hangs himself with a football sock, all that if left of Gracey's family is Dougy and herself. Gracey soon finds out that she is, in fact, Bert's great-granddaughter. Berts son was Dougy and Gracey's mothers' father. It turns out that Gracey and Dougy are half white, half aboriginal. The story ends with Gracey returning to Hamilton college to greet Angela and the others she left behind.