Karigan G'ladheon, a merchant's daughter, is cast out of her school in Selium by Dean Geyer following a duel in which she bested a wealthy aristocrat. Running away from the shame of her expulsion, she travels into the forest called the Green Cloak, she meets a Green Rider (a group of legendary and elite messengers in the king's service) who is dying with two black arrows protruding from his back. The Green Rider F'ryan Coblebay, makes Karigan swear to carry a message to Sacor City for the 'love of her country', and there to deliver into the hands of either Laren, the Captain of the Green Riders, or the king himself. He also orders Karigan not to read the letter for the sake of her life. Coblebay entrusts a second more private letter to her care also. As his life passes, he whispers with his last breath; "beware the shadow man...".She also takes the gold winged horse brooch, which she only noticed after his death. It is the symbol of his office as a Green Rider. Karigan, following her promise, rides the horse (whose real name is Condor) to Sacor City through perilous paths. The Horse appears to have an uncanny ability to navigate the various dangers Karigan encounters, always delivering Karigan to safety. During the journey, she meets many people, including the Berry sisters, members of the mystical, elf-like race of Eletians, and two traitorous Weapons (a special rank given only to the bodyguards of the king). Throughout her journey, the ghost of F'ryan Coblebay follows her, urging her on and providing help when desperately needed. When she reaches Sacor City, she is hailed as a Green Rider, and she delivers both letters. The second seemingly less important letter, which Karigan felt justified in reading as it was not addressed to the king, was a love letter to the beautiful Lady Estora. Karigan delivers the letter from F'ryan Coblebay but to everyones' dismay the letter appears to contain nothing of any importance. The Lady Estora, confused by inaccuracies in the letter delivered to her, approaches Karigan; who then takes the letter to Laren for closer inspection. The love letter is decoded to reveal a plot by his brother Amilton and one of the clan chiefs to kill King Zachary. Amilton, the elder brother of Zachary, was denied the throne due to his dishonorable character and eventually even lost the right to rule over the family province of Hillander due to his shameful behaviour. There follows a desperate battle as Shawdell, an Eletian who has infiltrated the kings court and gained the trust of the crown, is revealed as the Shadowman F'ryan Coblebay warned Karigan of. After a dangerous battle involving ghosts and a wraith like being called a munariel, Karigan kills the rogue Eletian and Zachary's throne is safe again. She then leaves for home with her father.