Thom Creed is a high school basketball star, who has a tendency for getting into trouble. His mother abandoned the family several years ago, and his father Hal, a publicly disgraced ex-superhero, now works as a lowly factory worker. During a basketball game, Thom recognizes one of the players from the opposing team as Goran, a guy who Thom once accidentally made a racist remark to. Goran ends up breaking his own leg, and Thom is able to heal his injuries by touching them with his hands. He explains that he has done this before, but doesn't know why. When he resumes playing, another guy calls him a faggot in front of everyone. After the game, Thom has a seizure, something that is most likely related to absorbing Goran's injuries, and ends up getting his license taken away. During the summer, Thom's coach tells him that it would be better if he no longer plays for the team. He initially says it's because of his health, but Thom knows better. When he get's home, he takes his father's laptop and decides to look at porn. Thom explains that he has always been attracted to guys, but is afraid to come out due to living in a homophobic town. While masturbating to a picture of local superhero Uberman, Hal comes home to get ready for his real estate class. Thom quickly straightens things up, but doesn't have enough time to erase his history on the computer. When his father does leave, Thom decides to run away from home. When he falls asleep on the bus, he becomes mixed up in a battle between some villains and The League. He also encounters a mysterious man known as Dark Hero, who works alone. Thom ends up using his powers yet again, and gets an invitation to try out for one the minor leagues. When he get's home, he discovers that Hal's former colleague Captain Victory has died. He immediately decides never to tell his father about the tryouts. Thom is accepted as a trainee, and assigned to work with a group of other probationary heroes. The group consists of Ruth, an aging psychic, Scarlett, who can control heat, and Larry, who has the ability to morph into any disease. The stress of keeping so many secrets from his father exacts a painful toll. Soon, however, the world's superheroes begin dying under mysterious circumstances. In order to solve the mystery, Thom must reunite with his fellow outcast trainees and deal as well with society's prejudices when his secrets are revealed.