Following the events in The Bone Doll's Twin, Prince Tobin awakens after the witch Lhel reveals that he was born as a girl, but in view of the king's purge of all possible female heirs that threaten him, Tobin was disguised by magic, wearing his stillborn brothers shape, whose bones are encased in the little doll his mother carried everywhere with her. Tobin's squire Ki (Kirothius) was gravely injured in coming to find Tobin. They recover for a time under the care of the wizard Iya. Tobin is haunted by the remnants of his brother, who coldly watches over him. Once Ki recovered, they return to the capital city beset by plague, as was prophesied, if the matriarchal throne is usurped. All female warriors and females holding important roles, were ordered to leave, leaving the city completely under male rule. A prominent court wizard, Niryn, directs and leads the city, driving out all other wizards, claiming they are the cause of the city's difficulties. He commands the Harriers, a force dedicated to eradicating opposing wizards. Despite the Harriers, who are busily killing and exterminating all wizards, the old magics are not only being preserved, but the mages are making discoveries that they are determined to use to come back, and put the rightful queen back on the throne of Skala. Niryn however, has provided himself with insurance. After finding a distant relative to the throne, he ensured her pregnancy with a female heir, promptly murdering her to raise the child, Nalia, himself. Tobin, meanwhile, has rejoined the Companions, a small group of nobles and high born boys, including Tobin's cousin, the heir to the throne, prince Korin. Tobin becomes interested in battle strategies and war, and outdoes himself in regards to fencing, though he has the artists touch. As he and the rest of the Companions pass from children to teens and young men, Tobin encounters more and more difficulty in coming to terms with who he really is, and hiding his identity from the other Companions, who have become more uninhibited, Prince Korin impregnating several serving girls, who are quietly disposed of by the wizard Niryn. However, when Lady Aliya is pregnant with prince Korins child, Niryn is unable to prevent a wedding, instead causing Aliya to miscarry a fetus with neither arms nor face. The wizards are gathering, plotting against the reign of king Erius, who possesses the Sword of Gherilain, a symbol of the ruler of Skala, which no king or queen can rule without. Tobin begins to attract attention form the other boys, with his refusals to join them in the brothels and his stunted growth. However, he proves himself in battle, rallying his troops to him, while prince Korin freezes in the heat of battle. Aliya gives birth to a hideously deformed child without face or legs, Niryn's work, quickly blamed on the renegade wizards. Lady Aliya dies in the birth, along with the child, destroying prince Korins royal line. Tobin and Ki, along with a few more companions, get separated from the rest of their Companions in battle. They make their way to Tobins land, a wealthy keep with castle and village, which is closed to the boys as the villagers fear plague carriers. Tobin is revealed as the true queen, taking his true shape of a girl, winning the support of the people. Brother is freed, but not before stopping the heart of the King, leaving Korin to be king in his stead. As all wizards and common people rejoice that the true queen has returned, Niryn spreads lies to the prince, who turns against his formerly beloved cousin. As Tobins army takes the city, Korin flees with the assistance of Niryn, who leads him to the house where Nalia lives, where the frightened girl is told Korin is her new husband, and is taken off, presumably to be impregnated with a rival heir for Tobin's throne. Although Tobin is Queen in name, she still lacks the Sword of Gherilain, which is needed by a queen of Skala. Tobin vows to retrieve it from Korin.