Bertha Aaron, a secretary at a law firm, comes to the brownstone to hire Wolfe to investigate a possibly serious ethical lapse by a member of the firm. She has no appointment and arrives during Wolfe's afternoon orchid session, so Archie gets the particulars from her. The firm she works for is representing Morton Sorell in a messy, highly publicized divorce. A few evenings ago, Miss Aaron noticed a junior member of the law firm – she won't say which one – in a cheap eatery, tête-à-tête with Mrs. Sorell, the firm's opponent in the divorce action. That sort of ex parte communication is highly improper. Later, Miss Aaron asked the lawyer about it, and he wouldn't discuss the matter. Miss Aaron won't take the problem to the firm's senior member, Lamont Otis, because she fears that the news, coupled with Otis's advanced age and heart condition, will kill him. But it has to be investigated. It's a novel problem, and Archie takes the unusual step of consulting Wolfe in the plant rooms. Because the case concerns a divorce, it's one that Wolfe normally would not touch. But because legal ethics, not the divorce itself, is the central issue, Archie thinks there's a chance Wolfe will take it. Even so, Wolfe tells Archie he won't do it, and Archie returns to the office to give Miss Aaron the bad news. Back in the office, Archie finds he can't give the news to Miss Aaron because she's dead, hit on the head with a heavy paperweight and then strangled with a necktie. It's Wolfe's paperweight. Even worse, it's Wolfe's necktie. He had spilled some sauce on it at lunch, removed it, and left it on his desk where someone could find it and use it to strangle Miss Aaron. Late that night, after Inspector Cramer and other police investigators have left, Mr. Otis arrives, along with one of the law firm's associates, Ann Paige. The death of his valued secretary has upset Otis, and he wants to know what happened. Wolfe allows Otis to read a copy of the statement Archie gave the police, and Otis is clearly shaken by the report of the ex parte communication. Otis asks Miss Paige to leave Wolfe's office – he wants to discuss things privately – and Archie escorts her to the front room. Wolfe and Otis discuss the situation at length, and Wolfe gets Otis's take on the three junior members of the firm, one of whom Miss Aaron saw talking with Mrs. Sorell. During their discussion, Archie checks on Miss Paige, and finds that she has opened the window in the front room and, apparently, jumped down to the sidewalk. She is nowhere to be found. The next morning, Archie calls on Mrs. Sorell, using as entrée a note he's written, informing her that she and the unidentified junior member were seen together in the restaurant. He wants to bring her to talk with Wolfe, but she plays dumb, and the best Archie can get from her is a promise to phone later in the day. On returning to the brownstone, Archie finds the office occupied only by a man he doesn't recognize. He finds Wolfe at the peephole, and learns that the man's name is Gregory Jett, one of the law firm's junior members. Jett is there to complain that Wolfe's behavior caused Mr. Otis undue stress. Brushing aside Jett's complaint, Wolfe learns that Jett is engaged to marry Miss Paige, and also that he had a brief fling with Mrs. Sorell a year earlier. Then the two other junior members, Edey and Heydecker, arrive looking for information and acting like lawyers. Mrs. Sorell's promised phone call comes, and she tells Archie that Miss Aaron must have seen her talking with Mr. Jett. Wolfe and Archie regard this information with skepticism: she seems to them devious. Now Wolfe tells them what Miss Aaron had to say before she was murdered – as yet, that's been disclosed only to the police and to Mr. Otis. Wolfe also states his assumption that the guilty lawyer followed Miss Aaron to Wolfe's office, convinced her to admit him while Archie was in the plant rooms with Wolfe, and then took the opportunity to kill her. The problem is that the three lawyers share a mutual alibi for the date and time that Miss Aaron was murdered: they were in conference together at their office, fully a mile from the brownstone. The lawyers leave, suspicious of one another, and not happy. When Wolfe then learns from Inspector Cramer that the timing apodictically exonerates Edey, Heydecker and Jett, he arranges for all involved to be brought to the brownstone for the traditional climax. This time, though, all but one are in the front room, listening via hidden microphone to Wolfe talk things over with the murderer.