The book is set in a large house called Warings near the village of Derne. It was once a grand countryside mansion, but has since fallen into disrepair and decay. Joseph Hooper has inherited the house, and lives with his son Edmund Hooper. They have a cold, formal relationship which lacks compassion. Joseph announces that a housekeeper will be moving in, who will also bring her son who is of a similar age to Edmund. Mrs. Helena Kingshaw, and her son Charles Kingshaw arrive at Warings. Hooper becomes defensive of his house, and instantly takes a disliking to Kingshaw. He mocks him about his social class and father, and a small fight ensues where Kingshaw punches Hooper. Kingshaw then attempts to escape Warings, but is attacked by a vicious crow. The crow is thought to symbolize Hooper, who is very protective of his territory. Animalistic symbolism is used throughout the novel. Hooper proceeds to taunt and bully Kingshaw, who acts as the weak victim in their relationship. They venture to Hang Wood together, where Hooper's weaknesses become apparent and Kingshaw seems to retrieve some kind of power. However, it is apparent that Kingshaw does not have the capacity to be cruel. This pattern of cruelty continues throughout the book within the isolated setting of Warings. Both parents seem oblivious to their fights, and lack an understanding of their children's antics. They travel to Hang Wood on a few more occasions. It appears that Hooper is vulnerable in this setting, away from his home. The family decide to take a trip to Leydell Castle. Here, Kingshaw further exploits Hoopers fears as they climb the ancient monument. Hooper falls by accident, and badly injures himself. Even though Kingshaw tried to save him Hooper accuses Kingshaw of pushing him and is believed by the adults. Kingshaw is convinced that he has killed Hooper. As Hooper recovers, it appears that Kingshaw gains independence and meets a local boy by the name of Fielding. Fielding appears confident and well-rounded, and takes Kingshaw to his farm where he witnesses the birth of a calf. This is in stark contrast to Warings, which is full of death morbidity. Glass cabinets filled with moths are used to symbolize the decay of the Hooper dynasty. Fielding offers Kingshaw hope away from the manipulative clutches of Hooper. However, once Hooper returns to health, the normal regime of taunting resumes. Hooper's cruelty climaxes, and Kingshaw is devastated when he discovers that Helena and Joseph have agreed to marry, and that Hooper and Kingshaw will attend school together. The novel ends with Kingshaw committing suicide by drowning himself in a river in Hang Wood and Mrs. Kingshaw comforting Hooper who is described as feeling a sense of triumph.