After a diving team at Wilkes Ice Station is killed, the station sends out a distress signal which is picked up and a team of United States Recon Marines lead by Shane Schofield, code named Scarecrow, arrives at the station. At the station he finds several French scientists have arrive and several more come after the Marine's arrival. The French however reveal themselves as actual soldiers and a fight ensues in the station, claiming the lives of Scarecrow's men Hollywood, Legs, Ratman, several scientists, and all of the French soldiers while Mother looses her leg, Samurai is badly injured, and two French scientists are captured. Schofield decides to send a team down to find an object below the ice where the diving team was going to. Later, Samurai is found dead via strangling, leaving the only people he trusts to be one of the scientists, Sarah Hensleigh and another soldier named Montana as he was with them at the time of Samurai's death. Hensleigh, Montana, and two other Marines, Gant, and Santa Cruz, are sent down to where the diving team vanished. While alone, Schofield is shot and killed. He later wakes up, found to have been accidentally resurrected by his attacker and is in the care of scientists James Renshaw, the believed killer of one of the other scientists at Wilkes. Watching a video of Schofield's death, they see the attacker and discover it to be one of Schofield's men, Snake. The two capture Snake before he is able to kill the wounded Mother. Meanwhile in the United States, Andrew Trent and Pete Cameron meet, Cameron being a news reporter and Trent being a former Marine using the alias of Andrew Wilcox to avoid being found by the U.S military who a few years back had tried to kill him. They hear the distress call from Shofield and Trent realizes that what happened to him was happening to Shofield. The team learns of an appending attack by the SAS and decide to flee the station. During the escape via stolen vehicles, Shofield and Renshaw's is pushed off a cliff, Shofield's close friend Book and the step-daughter of Sarah Hensleigh, Kirsty, are captured, while Rebound escapes with four of the scientists. Schofield manages to destroy a French submarine and he and Renshaw begin their journey back towards it. Meanwhile, the SAS Brigadier Trevor Barnaby kills the two remaining French scientists and feeds Book to a pod of Killer whales. Schofield returns to the station and manages to kill all of the SAS and Snake, and save Kirsty. Schofield receives a message from Trent with a list of members of a secret service known as the Intelligence Convergance Group which includes Snake and Montana. Gant and her team find what appears to be an alien ship which turns out to be a spy ship. Montana succeeds at killing Santa Cruz but mutated Elephant seals end up killing Montana. Schofield and the two others arrive and Hensleigh reveals herself to be an ICG agent, but is soon killed by a wounded Gant. Remembering the station is about to be destroyed, Schofield, Gant, Renshaw, Kirsty, and a Fur seal named Wendy escape on the spy plane and land on the USS Wasp where they destroy the ship. It is revealed that Mother had escaped Wilkes before its destruction and was saved by US forces. The survivors get to Hawaii where they are nearly killed by an ICG agent before being saved by Trent, Pete and Allison Cameron, and the captain of the USS Wasp. Renshaw assumes custody of Kirsty since he's the godfather and Shofield doesn't leave Gant's side until she recovers.