Inspector Ghote is tasked by his Superintendent to attend the London police conference and present a prepared speech. On arrival at London airport Inspector Ghote is met by his cousins, Mr and Mrs Datta, who run a London restaurant. Their niece, 17 year old Ranee, known as the Peacock for her brightness, has disappeared. The family suspect her boyfriend, 35 year old pop music star Johnny Bull. An interview with the girl's friends reveals that they believe she has been killed but do not know who by. Ghote visits the singer in his flat where he is told that Johnny has not seen the Peacock since she disappeared and that Johnny has taken up with another girl, Susan. Johnny is a self-confessed opium user and informs Ghote that the Peacock herself was a drug user who acquired her drugs from a local public house known as the "Robin's Nest". At the "Robin's Nest", Ghote extracts a confession from the owner of having supplied opium to Peacock. He learns of a protection racket being run by the Smith brothers and is surprised to find that the Peacock's uncle, Vidur Datta, is an opium user. Later, Ghote manages to confront the Smith brothers at their home (where they live with their mother), only to find himself in immediate danger. He is rescued by a passing policeman who advises Ghote against interfering in an investigation being conducted by the British Police and suggests in a patronising manner that Ghote should stay in busy well-lit streets. Ghote decides to take up the matter with the local police station where he encounters a prejudiced desk sergeant. Believing he has reached a dead end to his enquiries, Ghote decides to drop the case. The Peacock's aunt, Mrs Datta, quickly changes his mind by making it an issue of professional pride. Ghote keeps watch on the Smith bother's home the following night and gains access while they are out. While talking to their mother he learns they were in police custody before and after the disappearance of the Peacock. Returning to the "Robin's Nest" Ghote accuses the owner of lying and attempting to steer him into harm's way. Ghote satisfies himself that the man could not have murdered the Peacock however. Ghote attempts to interview Johnny Bull again, but fails to get past Susan. He learns that Johnny will be at a particular recording studio that afternoon. He returns to the conference where he listens to a superb presentation and learns that his own presentation must follow it the next day. He begins to become nervous about addressing a crowd. At the recording studio, Ghote conceals himself and overhears enough from Susan to realise that Johnny Bull could not have kidnapped or murdered the Peacock. When he returns to his cousins he informs them of his findings so far and is promptly scolded for spending so much time finding out who has not kidnapped or murdered the girl. The next day Ghote has developed a cold as a result of the British climate. He finds the conference has moved into a much larger and grander room for the last day. His speech will be the last of the conference and he becomes increasingly nervous as the time for him to speak. However, the man who is to introduce Ghote is twenty minutes late, leaving him in a state of consternation. Finally Ghote gives his presentation and makes an appalling job of it. Frustrated and angry at everything that has happened, he adds what he has learned about Johnny Bull using opium and walks out. That evening at his cousin's restaurant, Ghote realises he has solved the mystery of the Peacock's disappearance. Ghote accuses his cousin, Vidur Datta, of murdering Ranee "The Peacock" Datta because she was blackmailing him with his secret opium habit. The body is concealed under the restaurant's rubbish. No sooner has Ghote made the accusation and secured a confession than the British Police arrive, eager to congratulate him on the information he supplied about Johnny Bull. Johnny has been arrested and confessed to smuggling drugs in the Indian harmonium he has been using in his latest songs.