Joe Stosh is severely insulted during one of his at-bats in a baseball game by the opposing pitcher, Bobby Fuller, and loses his temper. He charges the mound, determined to teach Fuller a lesson. Mass chaos follows, and Joe ends up getting suspended indefinitely from Little League. He then goes to school the next day to receive an assignment to write a report on an important African American figure in United States history. Being a baseball fan, he chooses Jackie Robinson. He uses his special ability to travel through time with baseball cards to go back and witness Jackie Robinson’s first [[Major League Baseball. Joe realizes he is black. After meeting the Robinsons, they take Joe to see the Opening Day game. He becomes a batboy along with Ant, a prejudiced and mental teenager. Joe also buys valuable baseball cards for his father. Soon, Ant thinks Joe is a Communist and steals his Ken Griffey Jr. card, but Joe takes it back and travels back to the present. Joe goes back in time again, this time he is white. Joe travels to Yankee Stadium for the 1947 World Series with Jackie. There, Ant discovers Joe's Game Boy, but before he can call the cops, Joe leaves. Ant decides to break into Jackie's house. He steals Joe's million-dollar baseball cards. Joe wants to stay for Game 7, but with the cops after him, he knows it is not possible. Joe leaves 1947, this time for good. Back in the present, Joe gives his report and states that Jackie Robinson had to endure all the prejudice going on. It ends up being outstanding, and the teacher proclaims it the best in the class. His suspension from the Little League is lifted for the last game of the season. He again meets Bobby Fuller in the bottom of the last inning with the score tied, but this time ignores his heckling and gets a single. After that, he manages to successfully steal second base, third base, and home plate, getting the ultimate revenge. Historic baseball figures appearing in the book include Pee Wee Reese, Dan Bankhead, Hugh Casey, Dixie Walker, Bobby Bragan, Eddie Stanky, and Babe Ruth.