This book tells the tale of Jedi Master Nejaa Halcyon & Jedi Padawan Anakin Skywalker trying to rescue an important Republic communications hub from the Separatist Forces, located on the barren planet of Praesitlyn. Halcyon, having previously failed an important mission, is sent as a trial in order for him to regain the Jedi Council's trust. As they had grown close during their time in the Jedi Temple, Halcyon chose Anakin as his second in command against the wishes of the council, making the mission as much a trial for Anakin as well. Even before reaching Praesitlyn, Halcyon confesses to Anakin of his violation of the Jedi code, that he had a wife and a son. In turn, Anakin relates about his own forbidden marriage to Padmé Amidala with both Jedi promising not to reveal their digressions to anyone. Anakin & Nejaa Halcyon lead the Republic reserve forces to reinforce Praesitlyn and to recover the hostages within the Intergalactic Communications Center from C.I.S. occupation. The opposing C.I.S. forces are commanded by Muun Admiral Pors Tonith of the InterGalactic Banking Clan, under command himself from Asajj Ventress and Sith Lord Count Dooku. At this time the Praesitlyn Defence Forces have been overcome with Trooper Odie Subu and Lieutenant Erk H'Arman, the only survivors. The only reason Praesitlyn has not been completely overrun by the C.I.S. is because of intervention by rogue former Republic officer, Captain Slayke and his troops, the badly outnumbered Sons and Daughters of Freedom. Halcycon and Anakin arrive just in time to relieve Slayke with all available troops though the situation is still perilous. Anakin is for the first time put in a commanding position and while acquitting himself well, clearly shows frustration and impatience to be fighting. In addition to Anakin's issues, the book also deals with attitudes towards clones, and their degree of humanity. We see a general stereotyping that clones are subdegree humans, with their personalities and abilities often not being trusted as much as those of other beings. This can be seen in actions of reconnaissance where it is clear if Clone Commando CT-19/39 had not been disregarded, he would have been able to relay important information that would have saved hundreds of lives. Instead only Sergeant Omin L'Loxx was relied upon, resulting in disaster. With such a disastrous failure, Anakin decides upon a desperate measure by which he and a small attack group of two troop transports fly directly to within the ICC to rescue the hostages. Anakin in his element destroys almost all droids in his path, leaving the troops behind him in awe and with nothing to shoot at. Reaching the hostages, Anakin is shocked as a woman reminds him so much of his mother. As she is killed we see Anakin become an avenger, treading perilously close to the Dark Side of the Force. Jedi Master Nejaa Halcyon, as well as Grand Master Yoda and indeed Darth Sidious feel the disturbances in the force at this, though only one yet understands their meaning. Anakin's rampage only ends before murdering Pors Tonith, as he hears Qui-Gon Jinn's voice reaching him through the Force, telling him to use the Force for good not destruction. Although Anakin initially brings himself out of his rage, we can tell it is only suppressed to be brought out later once again. Though their objectives had been achieved, as well as Pors Tonith having been captured by Anakin's actions, the Separatist's relief fleet arrives under a cloaking device. In the battle Anakin is again in his element, with Master Halcyon becoming more his wingmate than commander. Anakin, although being called back, seemingly decides to sacrifice himself in order to destroy the enemy flagship. To Halcyon's horror, Anakin disappears in the blast of the Separatist's Relief Fleet's explosion. Later however, in the midst of mourning Anakin and celebrating victory, Anakin's craft returns much to everyone's surprise. Anakin later explains his seeming resurrection, saying how he had installed a hyperdrive engine in his starfighter, enabling him to escape from the blast, with his split-second timing, stemming from his immense force-sensitivity. On his return to Coruscant, the Jedi Council, overbowed with exceptional reports of Anakin's performance, finally agree to grant him Knighthood in the order.