The story begins with the monk Tensing and his disciple, the Prince Dil Bahadur, traveling in a remote part of the Himalaya, on a journey to the Valley of the Yeti, in search of rare plants found only there, for use in medicines and balms. When they arrive they find the valley is beautiful, and they stay the night. In the morning they awake to many Yetis around them with clubs and other weapons, yet the monk and his disciple remain calm but then in the distance they see a slow moving, bigger Yeti, the ancient matriarch of the Yeti, Grr-ympr. She calls off the Warriors, and soon the lamas learn the sad story of the last of the Yeti. Grr-ympr is very old, from a stronger generation of Yetis, but with each generation of Yeti, they grow smaller, weaker and animalistic, in contrast to the great human-like Yeti of the past, whose society was nearly as complex as that of the humans. They believed this was due to the wrath of the gods, and that the lamas were the gods themselves, arriving to save the Yeti. After observing the Yeti, they find that the Yeti breastfeed their young, but as it gives little nourishment, the milk does not strengthen the babies, which is why they are all so sickly and weak, and often die. Further investigation also shows all the Yeti have purple, diseased tongues, which seems to be a sign of something in their environment weakening them. The lamas teach the Yeti to milk the Chegnos, the only domesticated animal the Yeti have, to feed the milk to the babies, who then show improvement from the diet. They also soon discover the water from the thermal springs that the Yeti drink from is contaminated with toxic minerals, and is the cause of the weakness of the Yeti and their purple tongues. After the tribe ceases to drink from the springs, their energy and health rapidly improves, and in return for what the lamas have done, they help them collect the plants and show them a short cut tunnel that cuts the journey back a great deal. The novel then shifts to Kate Cold, a writer for International Geographic, and her grandson Alexander Cold, arriving back in the New York from their adventures in Brazil from the previous novel. Alexander gives his Grandmother three large diamonds that Nadia had found in the Amazon, and tells her to use them to fund an Organization to protect The People of the Mist, and other Indians in South America. Although initially doubtful to the large eggs being diamonds, Kate goes to her jeweler friend Isaac Rosenblat, who immediately tells her that they are the largest diamonds he has ever seen and worth a fortune. The scene shifts six months and in that time the Diamond Foundation has been started, along with the help of Kate's old nemesis, archaeologist Ludovic Leblanc. Kate has also been assigned by International Geographic to travel to the Kingdom of the Golden Dragon to write an article. A call from Alexander asking to be able to come along and bring Nadia convinces her to have them come as well. The scene shifts to the second richest man in the world, known as the Collector, talking with the Specialist, talking about acquiring the Golden Dragon, an artifact from the Kingdom of the Golden Dragon which allows people to see into the future, as well as instructions on how to use it. The Collector seeks this item to be able to foresee the stock market, and to use it to make himself much richer, and no longer be the second richest man in the world. Once at Kingdom of the Golden Dragon as it's called, they get involved in a sinister plot to kidnap young girls and force them to be their slaves. Nadia who is mistaken as a girl from the kingdom is kidnapped along with Pema and a few other girls. Now it is up to Alexander and his annoyed grandmother to save the girls along with a little help from the country's forces, a lama, his disciple, and of course Boroba's keen senses to find Nadia.