The novel takes place in the French 19th century countryside. The parents of Landry and Sylvinet, identical twins, who are respectable and relatively rich farmers, do not follow the advice that was given at their birth to keep separating and differentiating them while they are still young. Consequently, they grow up always together and loving each other more than anything else. They are actually quite different, Landry being stronger both physically and mentally. But when they are 14 years old, one has to leave to work in a neighbouring farm. While the separation is also very hard for Landry, his pride makes him try to hide it, contrary to Sylvinet who cries and is very demonstrative. Sylvinet does not understand and therefore is hurt by Landry's cold attitude and regularly sulks. When looking for his brother, Landry must deal with Fadette. Fadette lives with her disabled and mentally slow brother and her grandmother who is very hard on them. They are despised by the other villagers because they are considered as witches and are always very dirty. This day, Fadette helps Landry to find his brother but he had to promise her that if she has to help him a second time, she could ask him to do anything she wants. And it happens that Landry needs her advice again to cross a river. Consequently, Fadette asks him to dance with her and only with her at the next village celebration. Landry is very annoyed since she has a bad reputation and besides, he wanted to dance with Madelon, a popular girl he is interested in. However, he reluctantly keeps his promise and even defends Fadette against boys who were bothering her. Touched and ashamed, she tells Landry to dance with whomever he wants and leaves the party. However, Landry goes after her and hears her crying. They then have a deep discussion for a long time in the dark and Landry realises that she is a very kind, sensible, intelligent and respectable person. He even wants to kiss her but she refuses, telling him that he will regret it the next day. And she was right. The day after, Landry, remembering her dirty face, does not understand how he could have felt such an attraction for her. But soon after, he overhears a conversation between Fadette and Madelon that shows how the first one is kind and humble and the other girl is vain and proud, which revives his feelings for her. Fadette and Landry later are engaged in a secret relationship. Sylvinet is aware that something is different with his brother and suffers a lot. He discovers their secret but keeps it to himself. But when Madelon finds out, she spreads the news in the village. Everyone including Landry's parents are shocked and urges him to end the relationship. Landry refuses but Fadette decides to leave to stop the scandal. Some time after, Landry also has to leave since he thinks that being separated would do his brother good. When Fadette comes back, she has become a respectable, clean and good-looking person. Thanks to her grandmother's death, she inherits a large amount of money and is able to look after herself and her brother properly. Everyone in the village finally acknowledges her merits and Landry's parents approve of their engagement. But jealousy again makes Sylvinet ill. Although he initially refuses to see Fadette, she actually manages to cure him and he finally accepts her... and even more since he decides at the end of the book to enlist, after his brother marries Fadette. Although Landry is unaware of it, their mother and probably Fadette realised that Sylvinet had fallen in love with her and did not want to obscure Landry's happiness.