The second book of the Little Black Girl Lost series reveals all the damaging secrets of the first book. Johnnie Wise, the main character, has a lot on her mind and trouble in her path. Every day Johnnie deals with the fact that she's rich by prostitution, is a high school dropout, has no parents, and is only 16. In the last year, before the second book began, Johnnie went from a church-going good girl, to a prostituting liar. Johnnie's troubles all started off on Christmas Eve, when her mother sold her virginity to a white man named Earl Shamus. Earl was a regular customer of her mother, Marguerite Wise, also a prostitute. Marguerite is later killed by the KKK leader, Richard Goode, who was also a regular customer. Johnnie wants justice for the death of her mother, and seeks the help of Napoleon Bentley. Bentley is a white Spaniard, who owns one of the hottest clubs on the black side of New Orleans. In exchange for sleeping with him, the married Napoleon grants Johnnie justice, while betraying his own morals. Lucas Matthews, Johnnie's boyfriend and Napoleon's employee, has an affair with Marla Bentley, Napoleon's wife. Lucas' inability to keep away from Marla's lust puts his life on the line. Bubbles, Napoleon's bodyguard and right hand man, constantly warns Johnnie and Lucas that the things they are doing are wrong and dangerous, but these warnings are meaningless to the naive teenagers. After Johnnie quits prostituting, she gets a job as a maid for the Beauregards. Though Johnnie doesn't have to work, she wants to get to know the white side of her family. Ethel Beauregard, Johnnie's boss, is unaware that Johnnie is her blood relative. On her first day she meets Katherine, the cook, who believes that she is queen of the house, and that the Beauregards praise her. Her thoughts of her high status are soon crushed when Johnnie sits at the table for breakfast with the Beauregards, and then feeds her sickly grandfather, Nathaniel. As Johnnie's life progresses and she tries to find the answers to all her questions, Lucas' trouble starts to unravel. One day Lucas is ordered by Napoleon to take Marla to Shreveport, Louisiana to pick out a new car. He doesn't want to go for the fact that he know he will fall into Marla's trap once again. As they make a pit stop, Lucas meets Preston, who pitches the idea that he should start selling marijuana for some fast money. When Lucas returned home, he went to Johnnie's house so they could fix their relationship. He also told Johnnie of his idea to start selling marijuana. Johnnie opposed at first, because Bubbles had warned him of these fast money ideas, but soon changed her mind and helped him carve a safe, secret plan. As Lucas and Johnnie progress, Napoleon's and Bubble's old enemies return. Vinnie Milano and John Stefano, some ten years ago, wanted to have Napoleon killed in prison, but his attempts failed. The black side of New Orleans was supposed to be Vinnie's, but Sam gave it to Napoleon instead, and Vinnie hated that. So once John heard that there was a race riot over the killing of Richard Goode he asked Sam for permission to terminate Napoleon. When Sam said no Stefano told Salvatore Porcella, his bodyguard, to take a trip to Chicago to pay Vinnie a visit, and get him to do their dirty work. When he returned to New Orleans his life was shortly ended before he could tell Stefano what happened, and that Connie Giovanni knew of their plans. Napoleon still yearned for Johnnie and would stop at nothing to get her, but first he knew that Lucas had to die. So he sent Bubbles to find Lucas' enemy, Billy Logan. It was now Thanksgiving and, Lucas was on the run for selling marijuana. Johnnie's life was going good until she got that call. Now that Lucas was in jail looking at 15&nbsp;years, Johnnie was desperate for help so she went to Napoleon. Everything was going down hill for Johnnie, her stock broker stole all her money, Lucas is in jail, and now she could possibly be pregnant. She believes that Napoleon is trustworthy, but he planned all this. Sadie tries to help, but doesn't know how, so she just listens and helps educate Johnnie's young mind on the harsh ways of people. Johnnie can't even begin to think of how to handle all this. "Will God help?" She asks herself, Johnnie Wise's young life was going so great, but she now realizes she can't trust everyone and how cold the world really is.