Destiny Williams wakes up on her eleventh birthday and receives a black outfit from her mum. Her biological father is the rock star Danny Kilman and her mum got them tickets to a movie premier in the hopes of Destiny meeting her real dad. Sunset Kilman, who lives with her rock star dad Danny Kilman, ex-model mum Suzy Kilman and two cuter and younger siblings with ridiculous names, attends the movie premier with her family. She's criticized by her mother Suzy, who she believes hates her. The movie has Danny in as a cameo appearance. It turns out they made fun of him on the movie, but Danny pretends it doesn't bother him and laughs it off. But as they walk out he becomes angry that they made a fool of him. Sunset sees Destiny and her mum in the crowd and tries to get her dad to look at them, only to be scolded by Suzy. Destiny and her mum Kate don't have train tickets home or any money to pay for transport. Destiny tries asking some people they pass as her mother isn't talking as Danny didn't recognize her. Destiny and Kate get a lift back from a nice lady eventually, but Kate asks her to drop them off at Robin Hill which is where Danny and his family live. Sunset wakes up the next day and finds Destiny who has climbed over the fence into her garden. The two start talking about how Destiny is the daughter of Danny as well. Suzy comes out and yells at Sunset for letting them in and threatens to call the police. Destiny and Kate are thrown out and Suzy hits Sunset around the face. Destiny and her mum eventually find their way back home to the maisonette house they live in, in the Bilfield estate. Destiny gets ready for school at Bilfield Primary where she is in year 6. Her teacher Mr Roberts announces they're doing a talent show called 'Bilfield's got Talent' The boys wants to do street dance acts and divide into two groups the Flatboys and the Speedos. (the Flatboys and Speedos are two gangs on the estate that hate each other and are always fighting). Apart from Raymond who does proper ballet and two other boys who want to mess about doing mikey take ballet. And Fareed who wants to do magic tricks. Hannah becomes his assistant. One group of girls decide to do a play, and two other groups are formed wanting to dance and sing at the same time. Which leaves Angel who wants to do a pole dance, which Mr Roberts forbids. Angel makes fun of Destiny, saying she has no talent. Destiny then says she'll sing the Danny Kilman song 'Destiny' which she was named after. Sunset finds Destiny and Kate's fan page on the official Danny Kilman fan site. She finds out Destiny's address and writes her a letter and send her a leather jacket. Sunset then tries again to talk to her dad and convince him that Destiny really is his daughter. He gets angry and tells Sunset to leave it. Destiny and her classmates all gather to rehearse their acts for the talent show. everyone is very badly rehearsed, except Destiny because when she sings everyone is stunned. Mr Roberts decides to put her on last. Destiny gets home with a rush of excitement. She finds the package Sunset had sent her and opens it up to find the jacket, which fits her perfectly. She has to wait until her mum's horrible friend Louella has gone so she can tell her mum about it and show her the letter from Sunset. Sunset's little sister Sweetie has a birthday party and receives wondrous gifts, including a doll as big as herself and a sweetshop. However, Danny has invited the niece of a girl who Suzy hates, which causes Danny and Suzy to start fighting. Danny walks out on them along with the girl who Sunset nicknames Big Mouth. Destiny prepares for the first talent show in front of the school with a student panel. Everybody gets really high scores (except a couple who are chanted of the stage with 'off, off, off!') and Destiny is given the second to last place. She goes home and cries to her mum about it, saying they don't like her just because she's the new girl and she isn't in either of the Flatboys or Speedos gangs. Danny turns up and takes the kids away with him and Big Mouth, despite Suzy's protests. They go to a grand hotel and get room service Destiny arrives at her school later in the evening for the talent show with teachers on the panel. She's greeted by Jack, a boy in her class who she begins to like when he compliments her on her singing. He comforts her backstage before she goes on. After Destiny's sung, she's given the highest score meaning she's won the competition. Jack jumps onstage and gives her a hug in front of everyone. The next day she takes her mum Kate to the doctors as throughout the book she's been worrying about her losing so much weight. Kate faints in the doctors and is taken for blood tests, but everything turns out to be fine with her. Sunset has to look after Sweetie and Ace as their mum Suzy gets more and more depressed. Danny's manager Rose-May comes to the door with Danny and says that Sweetie has a chance to be on TV on a new show called little darlings about famous celebrities and their children. Sweetie sings for her and Rose-May thinks she's perfect. The producer for the show comes along the next day and Sweetie gets ready to sing for her. Sweetie's tooth falls out just as she's about to sing and she bursts into tears. The producer Debs thinks she's too young for the show and asks if Sunset can sing. She says no, but makes them stay as she rushes to get the tape of Destiny singing at the talent show. They all watch it and Debs says they could reunite Danny and his long lost daughter on the show. Destiny wakes up and sings Destiny to herself, happy about her mum being alright. Her mum Kate rushes back into the house after she's left for work saying a Mercedes car is parked outside for her. She rings Debs as the driver gives them a letter. Destiny sings to Debs down the phone to prove it's her and Debs explains about the little darlings show and how she'll get to meet her dad Danny. Destiny and her mum are driven away, but Destiny stops and asks if she can make a quick stop. She goes to Jack's flat and says goodbye to him before she goes and it becomes obvious he has a crush on her. Destiny and Kate ride of to Robin Hill where they're greeted by Debs and Destiny meets her dad Danny with a big hug whilst she's being filmed. Destiny meets Sunset in person and the book ends with them smiling at each other as they hold hands, best friends turned sisters.