The story revolves around a girl called Prue who lives with her bossy, often scary dad who loses his temper very easily, a sweet yet pressured mum and an immature but kind hearted young sister, Grace. Her dad is very temperamental and he gets mad on silly things like art classes for Prue and he thinks going to school is an absurd idea. He insists on educating Prue and Grace himself while running a not-so-successful book shop. One day a man from the education system comes and tells Prue’s dad that Prue will have to go to school so she can get her GCSE’s. After much grumbling her father decides to send her to Maths tuition but not school. After the class, Prue gives up and bunks her classes, while spending £60 in the process on chocolate which she later shares with Grace and some lacy undies. Prue’s father finds out and gets so worked up about it that he has a stroke and has to leave for the hospital immediately. After much thinking over, the girls’ mother decides to send them to the nearest public school, Wentworth High, while still keeping it a secret from their sick father. Prue and Grace go to their new school and find it a slightly scary place. Prue meets the school art teacher, Mr Raxberry(Rax as everyone calls him) and develops a crush on him. Prue tries to be confident but Grace shows that she is scared. The girls give admission exams but while Grace finds most questions easy, Prue panics as she thinks the easy questions are trick questions and can't do the hard ones. She writes an essay in hope that it will be counted as good intelligence. Grace passes with flying colors while Prue does not get a good score and is sent in the class where dense kids are put. She finds it a struggle and is very unhappy. Grace on the other hand is very happy and makes new friends who nicknamed themselves as Iggy and Figgy. The next day is also difficult for Prue as there are PE lessons and she has to change with the other girls where they see Prue's lacy under-garments and starts calling her a slag but she has Rax’s art lessons to look forward to. She enjoys immensely and Rax even tells her that “You’re going to be the girl that makes my teaching worthwhile, I love you'. A boy named Toby likes Prue though the feeling is not mutual and Toby’s girlfriend is very jealous of them. Prue helps Toby with his reading as he is dyslexic and continues to visit her father, who is being extremely uncooperative in trying to recover his speaking skills, on regular bases. Prue finds out while talking to Rax that he is married to a blonde woman who had been his childhood sweetheart and has a son and daughter. Soon Prue and Rax’s relationship starts to develop and they share the 10 minutes of peace they have without anyone in the way, to talk and laugh, as Prue starts to baby-sit for Rax’s children. After having an argument with Rax, Prue confronts him and asks if he loves her, he then confesses that he does and cannot stop fantasising about her but says that he cannot risk his marriage and his job. She then kisses Rax, who at first pulls away but Prue is persistent and kisses him again and soon Rax begins to kiss Prue back. Afraid they will be spotted Rax drive off to a place he used to go to with his wife when they were young, they talk and continue making out. However when she arrives back home Prue’s dad has come home, he finds out about their going to school but cannot do much because of his still stiff position. Afraid that he will ban her and Grace from going back to school and therefore not seeing Rax anymore, she confides her troubles to Rax, who is really agitated about them being seen together and asks her to calm down. Finally he hugs her trying to calm her but then another student named Sarah spots Prue hugging Rax and telling him that she loves him. Sarah then proceeds to tell everyone else about the incident. The end consists of the head teacher of the school expelling Prue, Rax comes and says goodbye to Prue for the last time, where they briefly consider running off together. Later with the help of Tony Prue's family discovering a set of antique books and selling them to pay off their heavy debts. Prue is sent to Kingtown High School while Rax gets to keep his job.