The novel tells the story about how an 11-year old girl named Aubrey Priestly recovers from losing her little sister (Savannah) and her father in a car crash. The first main event was when Aubrey’s mother runs away and leaves Aubrey alone in their house. Aubrey soon has to go shopping and buys a fish which she names Sammy. For a week, Aubrey lives on Spaghetti-Os and cheese and crackers. Eventually, Aubrey’s grandma shows up because Aubrey wasn’t answering the phone. Aubrey decides to lie to her grandma about her mother being missing, saying she would come for dinner, but Aubrey's grandma soon finds out that Aubrey's mother is missing. Grandma decides that she will take Aubrey with her to her house in Vermont. While in Vermont, Aubrey makes a new friend (Bridget) and has fun with her and her sister (Mabel). Mabel reminds Aubrey of Savannah and a few times Aubrey freaks out. When the school year begins, Aubrey has to go see the school counselor, Amy, who gives Aubrey an assignment to sit by someone new at lunch. She decides to sit by Marcus, another boy under Amy's guidance. At first he was kind of nervous. Then after a while he loosens up and they become friends. Aubrey’s mother finally arrived at night, waking Aubrey up by the sound of her voice in the house. At first she thought it was a dream, then she thinks it’s too clear to be a dream. She goes down stairs to see her mom and grandma arguing in the kitchen. For a while, Aubrey’s mother lives with Aubrey and her grandma, trying to recover from all she’s been through. After she gets better she goes back to her house in Virginia without Aubrey. After a few months, Aubrey’s mother decides that she is ready for Aubrey to come home. The choice of returning is left to Aubrey, who is very excited at first but realizes she has a difficult decision to make. She decided to stay with her grandmother and will visit during the summer. In conclusion Aubrey realises that it would be best if she stayed with her grandma as she would miss her too.