The novel occurs during a 22 day period mostly in Shanghai, China, and concerns mainly the socialist insurrectionists and people involved. The four protagonists are Ch’en Ta Erh (whose name is spelled Tchen in the French version of the book), Kyoshi ("Kyo") Gisors, the Soviet emissary Katow, and Baron De Clappique. Their individual plights are intertwined throughout the book. Chen Ta Erh is sent to assassinate an authority, succeeds, and is later killed in a failed suicide bombing attempt on Chiang Kaishek. After the assassination, he becomes governed by fatality and desires simply to kill, thereby fulfill his duty as a terrorist, a duty which controls his life. This is largely the result of being so close to death since assassinating a man. He is so haunted by death and his powerlessness over inevitability that he wishes to die, just to end his torment. Kyo Gisors is the commander of the revolt and believes that every person should choose his own meaning, not be governed by any external forces. He spends most of the story trying to keep power in the hands of the workers rather than the Kuomintang army and resolving a conflict between him and his wife, May. He is eventually captured and, in a final act of self-determination, chooses to take his own life with cyanide. Katow had faced execution once before, during the Russian Civil War and was saved at the last moment, which gives him a feeling of psychological immunity. After witnessing Kyo's death, he watches with a kind of calm detachment as his fellow revolutionaries are taken out one by one, to be thrown alive into the chamber of a steam locomotive waiting outside, intending, when his turn comes, to use his own cyanide capsule. But hearing two young Chinese activists talk with trembling fear of being burned alive, he gives them the cyanide (there is only enough for two), himself being left to face the more fearsome death. He thus dies in an act of self-sacrifice and solidarity with weaker comrades. Baron De Clappique is a French merchant, smuggler, and obsessive gambler. He helps Kyo get a shipment of guns ended and is later told that Kyo will be killed unless he leaves the city in 48 hours he will be killed. On the way to warn Kyo, he gets involved with gambling and cannot stop. He considers gambling "suicide without dying". Clappique is very good-humored and always cheerful all the time but suffers inwardly. He later escapes the city dressed as a sailor. *Ch'en Ta Erh &ndash; the assassin. Protagonist. *Kyo Gisors &ndash; the leader of the revolt. Protagonist. *Baron De Clappique &ndash; a French merchant, smuggler, and obsessive gambler. Protagonist. *Old Gisors &ndash; Kyo's father, one-time Professor of Sociology at the University of Peking, and an opium addict, acts as a guide for Kyo and Ch’en *May Gisors &ndash; Kyo's wife and a German doctor, born in Shanghai *Katow &ndash; A Russian, one of the organizers of the insurrection, he is burned alive for treason. *Hemmelrich &ndash; A Belgian phonograph-dealer. *Yu Hsuan &ndash; His partner. *Kama &ndash; A Japanese painter, Old Gisors' brother-in-law. *Ferral &ndash; President of the French Chamber of Commerce and head of the France-Asiatic Consortium. He struggles with his relationship with Valerie because he only wishes to possess her as an object. *Valerie &ndash; Ferral's girlfriend. *Konig &ndash; Chief of Chiang Kaishek's Police. *Suan &ndash; Young Chinese terrorist who helped Ch’en, later arrested in the same attack in which Ch'en was killed. *Pei &ndash; Also helped Ch’en.