Roy Strang narrates the book from an (at first) unexplained coma, which he has been in for the previous two years. His life in this state is a miserable affair, surrounded by uncaring doctors and his extremely dysfunctional family. In his fantasy life, however, he is an adventurer in the wilds of South Africa, where he and his loyal guide, Sandy Jamieson, hunt for an elusive, deadly creature called the Marabou Stork. When not hallucinating, Strang tells his life story, beginning in a "scheme" (local authority housing) in Leith, Scotland, with his violent, delusional parents, two half-brothers (one a womanizer, the other flamboyantly gay), and his promiscuous sister, all of whom he despises. The family relocates to apartheid-era South Africa when he is an adolescent, where he is repeatedly molested by his uncle. When his father is jailed for the violent assault of a taxi driver, the Strangs are forced to return to Scotland &mdash; a mere 18 months after they left. Over the next few years, Strang grows into a violent, misogynistic thug. He maintains a full-time job in as a systems analyst for the fictional investment group, 'Scottish Spinsters' (a probable reference to the real Scottish Widows firm). He joins a gang of football hooligans who are attached to Hibernian F.C., the Capital City Service, and led by the fearsome Lexo. Strang enjoys his life as a "top boy," feared by the entire town, until the gang kidnaps a young woman who rejected their advances and gang rapes her; Strang informs the reader that he is horrified, but too intimidated to try and stop them, even though he himself does not join in. The gang evades prison, but Strang is stricken with guilt and withdraws completely into depression. He briefly revives a few months later when he meets a woman and genuinely feels love for the first time. Around the same time he begins to take ecstasy, and even befriends his gay half-brother. The memory of what he has done continues to haunt him, however, and his depression soon completely engulfs him, taking him away from his lover and his drug-driven escapism. He attempts suicide but survives, putting him in the coma he began the novel in. One day, the gang's rape victim visits him in the hospital. She tells him that she has been murdering her rapists one by one, and now she has come for him, saying that he was by far the most brutal; it is left ambiguous whether or not this is true. She then castrates him and stabs him to death. In his final moments, Strang realizes that the only person he has ever really hated is himself, and makes peace with everyone he has wronged and who has wronged him. The novel's other, more stream-of-consciousness narrative, intertwined with the story of Strang's past, takes place in the fantasy world he creates for himself in the coma. At first a bizarre but rousing adventure, it gradually becomes darker as Strang reveals the uglier parts of his life and personality, involving surreal images of brutality and sexual violence.