Danny Lopez, a young teenager, is the main character of Mexican WhiteBoy. The first part of this book talks about him as a shy boy from San Diego. His school, Leucadia prep, has a majority of white children and he feels different from all of the other kids even though he has only a slightly darker skin tone. During this summer he went with his cousin Sofia. Danny’s uncle, Tommy, wanted to beat up someone but did not know who to beat up because Danny wouldn't tell him because he was afraid to. After his uncle left, then Danny got in a car with his friends and his other friends got on another car and they were going to Del Mar Fair. In Danny’s car somebody got out a bottle of alcohol and they were passing it around so everybody would get a sip. Danny had never had a drink in his life but Sofia influenced him to drink a little bit, so Danny did. At one point in the fair they went to go feed some goats celery and Danny remembered his dad. When Danny first sees Liberty, he feels something inside of him that cannot be described. Danny, and Sofi’s friends go to the theatre and Danny bought them popcorn. Danny sees Liberty in the line of the theatre where they were standing at. Danny, and Uno are in the mound, they go against Carmelo and JJ. Danny had a bad day because he couldn't pitch the ball straight at Uno’s hands. Danny overhears Sofie and his Uncle Tommy talking about his dad abusing his mom. Danny, and Uno go against Carmelo and JJ. This time Danny gives Carmelo three strikes, and Carmelo keeps saying do duble or nothing, and they keep on raising money, and Carmelo gets mad JJ grabes the hat with the money inside and tries running with it but Uno gets JJ from behind and punches him and all of JJ’s friend’s comes in and tackle Danny and Uno then this guy from Los Padres scout came and taclke all the kids that were punching Danny and Uno. Later both Danny and Uno runs to the bus stop. Danny gets a phone call from his mother from San Francisco, she tells him how beautiful San Francisco is but out of nowhere she starts crying. In the novel his mother tells him that she wants to be with the family again and be happy so she told him that she is going to pick him up in a few days. So Uno and Danny decide to have one last practice at Las Palmas, that evening Uno and Sofie was talking about there life and how would it change if this happened and looking to the future. She tells him “ Anyways this girl climbs up the ladder real slow right? But her parents let her do it all by herself. And the whole time she has this huge smile in her face. And when she gets to the top of the slide, she sits there for a sec, clapping her hands and laughing. Her parents hustle around to the bottom of the slide and she says ‘Here I come’ its like she was saying it to the world (212). Uno takes Danny to his old school and they found Kyle a future baseball player that had been scouted, Uno tells Kyle to put money on the line but Danny and Uno losses the bet. After getting into a fight with the other guys, Uno and Danny head home. At Sofia's house they talk about their future. As the story ends, Uno and Danny go to their favorite spot throw some rocks. Danny realizes that after all that he's been through he's glad to be where he is today.