Much of the novel delves into the long and exciting history of the Millennium Falcon, as it had been called many names and had many intriguing adventures, from the time it came off the assembly line almost like a wild animal, to when it became the magnet in attracting the adventures of the great Han Solo. In 19 BBY, during the Clone Wars' Battle of Coruscant, the Falcon had undergone the name of Stellar Envoy under the captaining of Tobb Jadak and his copilot Reeze Duurmun. Jadak and Duurmun had acted as conspirators as part of a plot to overthrow Supreme Chancellor Palpatine as leader of the Old Republic. Their mission failed when an erratic hyperspace jump landed the Envoy into an accident that killed Duurmun and landed Jadak in a coma that lasted for more than sixty years. By 43 ABY, two years after the end of the Second Galactic Civil War, Jadak awakens, having barely aged since his time in the coma. And with the help of ne'er-do-well Flitcher Poste, they work their way forward in time from 19 BBY in order to find out what happened to the Stellar Envoy. Meanwhile, the Solos discover a mysterious object aboard the Millennium Falcon, and they decide to go on a fact-finding mission in order to discern the Falcons origins. They work their way back in time from when Lando Calrissian first owned the ship until they eventually cross paths with Jadak and Poste. Jadak reveals that the mysterious object in the Solos' hands will lead them to a treasure on the world of Tandun III, which was meant to overthrow Palpatine. On their heels is Lestra Oxic, a mysterious businessman who wants the treasure. When all of these parties arrive on Tandun III, they find that the planet has undergone an apocalypse thanks to the Yuuzhan Vong invasion that was wrought upon it years earlier. They discover the treasure, but it turns out to be a fake. Oxic then hires Jadak and Poste to help him find the real treasure just as the Solos escape with the other parties from a collapsing Tandun III. They all make it out in time and the planet explodes with no one dead. The novel ends with Luke Skywalker calling the Solos to come back to Coruscant because Galactic Alliance Chief of State Natasi Daala had Luke arrested for lack of action in defeating Jacen Solo in the first place during the Second Galactic Civil War. And so the Millennium Falcon flies back to Coruscant, another journey for the centenarian freighter.