After her rescue by the rebels of District 13, Katniss is convinced to become "the Mockingjay": a symbol of the rebellion against the ruling Capitol. As part of the agreement, she demands that the leader of District 13, President Coin, grant immunity to all of the Quarter Quell participants , including Peeta, and that Katniss reserves the right to kill President Snow, the unquestioned leader of Panem. Much to her displeasure, Katniss is kept away from the battles and works to create propaganda for the rebels. Katniss is unable to cope with the guilt as she watches a mentally ill Peeta on television, where he is forced to provide propaganda against her and the rebels for the Capitol. Finally, District 13 leaders decide to rescue Peeta, realizing that Katniss's guilt is impeding her role as "the Mockingjay." After the rescue, it is discovered that Peeta has been brainwashed into believing Katniss is the enemy, and he attempts to strangle her during their reunion. Peeta's brainwashing deeply effects and disturbs Katniss, but he gradually improves after much treatment and therapy, including cake decorating. His childhood friend, Delly Cartwright, helps with his recovery by recounting happy events from their past. Soon, Peeta recovers fully enough to train. Katniss and her propaganda unit are sent off on a mission to the Capitol, and President Coin later sends Peeta with them in replacement of another soldier, although his many scarred memories fuel his rage. The rebels, including Katniss, gain control of the districts and begin an assault on the Capitol. A propaganda filming in a "safe" Capitol neighborhood goes wrong, and Katniss and her team flee further into the city with the intent of finding and killing President Snow. Many members of Katniss's team are killed through intense urban warfare, including Hunger Games victor Finnick Odair. Eventually, Katniss presses on alone towards Snow's mansion, which has supposedly been opened to shelter Capitol children, but is actually intended to trap the kids and use them as human shields for President Snow. As she reaches the mansion, a hover plane with Capitol markings drops supply parachutes to the children which then explode, killing many of children. A rebel medical team, including Katniss's sister Prim, attempt to provide care to the wounded children as the rest of the parachutes explode killing Prim and many others. After watching her younger sister die, Katniss is even more determined to get her revenge on President Snow. After the rebels' victory, it is decided to punish the Gamemakers, by holding a Hunger Games with children from the Capitol. While recovering from the same explosion that killed her sister, Katniss accidentally encounters President Snow who is under house arrest. Snow tells that her that he did not order the assault that killed Prim, saying he would have escaped if he had access to a hover plane. When Katniss expresses her doubts about his innocence, Snow reminds her that they had agreed not to lie to each other following the 74th Annual Hunger Games. Katniss recalls that the bombing resembles a trap originally developed by Gale Hawthorne; Gale denies his involvement but Katniss cannot help holding him responsible. At Snow's execution, Katniss thinks back to her conversation with him, and realizes someone high up would have to give permission for Prim to be on the front lines despite her young age. Making it look like the Capitol killed Prim would push Katniss's loyalty to Coin and would also drive a wedge between the Capitol and President Snow. When she is given the opportunity to assassinate Snow, Katniss raises her bow and shoots Coin instead, killing her. A riot ensues and Snow is found dead. Katniss then tries to commit suicide, but Peeta stops her. Katniss is acquitted due to her apparent insanity and sent home to District 12, along with others who are attempting to rebuild. Peeta returns months later, having largely recovered from his brainwashing. Katniss falls back in love with Peeta, recognizing she needs his hope, and strength, in contrast to Gale who has the same fire she already finds in herself. Together with Haymitch they write a book filled with the stories of previous tributes of the Hunger Games and those who died in the war to preserve their memory. In the epilogue, twenty years later Katniss and Peeta are married and have two children. The Hunger Games are over, but Katniss dreads the day her children learn about their parents' involvement in both the Games and the war. When she feels distressed, Katniss plays a comforting but repetitive "game," reminding herself of every good thing that she has ever seen someone do. The series ends with Katniss claiming that "there are much worse games to play."