The heroine, Molly Moon, is on a mission to bring her long-lost twin brother, Micky, home. In order to do this, she travels back in time to the day of her birth with her best friend Rocky, and her small black pug Petula. When they realize the kidnapper is a time traveler, they follow him far into the future, to Mont Blancia (present day Mount Blanc). However, Molly then discovers that Micky has been made to think he is useless by Princess Fang, an evil 6-year-old genius, so he can hypnotize people of the village for her, into doing her orders. Once Molly is about to try to save Micky, she gets caught by Princess Fang. The evil princess, using her high-tech mind machine, takes away all of Molly's knowledge of hypnotism, leaving her helpless. However, in spite of losing her powers, Molly gains a new power; mind reading. Using her new skill, Molly is able to gather information from Princess Fang. However, Molly's best friend, Rocky, gets hypnotized, in the beginning, by Micky. Rocky then starts helping Princess Fang, so Molly promised herself to rescue him. Nurse Meekles (a worker) helps her escape with Micky by taking Micky's hypnotic powers into the mind machine too. They escape into a zoo, where Molly attempts to persuade Micky that Princess Fang is just using him. She mentions the fact that they've been pretending he was sick and needed their help, and the fact that he's named "Minus". After much persuasion, Molly gets Mickey on her side, and Micky tells her about the horrible plan the Princess Fang had concocted. In the end, Molly uses her mind reading powers to ask the mind machine if she can get her hypnotizing skills back. The mind machine gives back her, and Micky's, knowledge. She then hypnotizes all of Princess Fang's guards and asks to get her crystals back. Once she has her crystals, she stops time and gets in position to hypnotize people. Finally, all of the people, including Princess Fang, are hypnotized and Molly gets the situation under control. Molly also gets the true rulers of Mont Blancia back on the throne. After that she takes King Klaucus and his brother who were injected with a genetic fluid by princess Fang and are made mutants to Mont Blanc five hundred years ago when it was still covered in snow. There Klaucus' brother, Wildgust, tries to kill Klaucus to try to take over the throne. Molly freezes time, and the group leaves Wildgust in the past. In the end Molly, Micky, Rocky, Petula, and Silver and Mercury (two mind-reading birds given to Molly and Rocky as presents) leave to Molly's home at Briersville five hundred years in the past.