Moonshine is the sequel to Nightlife. The plot revolves around Caliban Leandros (Cal), and his older brother, Niko, as they and their friends try to rescue the psychic Georgina from a mysterious gangster. The gangster being Caleb, who incites the brothers to attempt to steal one of a pair of mysterious crowns called the Calabassa. Caleb informs the brothers that the current owner of the crown is an under boss in the Kin, the werewolf mafia, called Cerberus. After the initial meeting with Caleb, a werewolf called Flay is used to contact the brothers with information regarding George. Cal ends up having to work for Cerberus in order to find the crown, and finds that Flay also works for Cerberus under Caleb's orders. Caliban finds the crown, but is attacked by Cerberus. To his surprise, Flay ends up assisting him in killing the Kin boss. After killing Cerberus, the crown is stolen by one of the Auphe, who were thought to have all been killed by the brothers the previous year. The brothers then visit Abbagor, the troll under the Brooklyn bridge, in order to possibly find out about the whereabouts of the other crown. While there, Abbagor tells the brothers that the crown is used to steal from others, and is among gypsies, but then once again shows his tendency towards violence when he attacks Cal and Niko. Caliban discovers he has the ability to tear a wormhole in space, a trait handed down from his Auphe father, and escapes the disaster. Niko also escapes. They then find out that Flay is forced to work for Caleb, who is holding Flay's son Slay as a hostage. They allow Flay to help them in retrieving the crown for that reason. The task to discover the crown's location is then passed to Goodfellow because of his numerous friends and connections, and he discovers the whereabouts of the crown in a gypsy clan in the Everglades. They then go to acquire it. Once back in New York, Caleb contacts them to make the exchange at the werewolf bar Moonshine. Cal, Niko, Goodfellow, Promise, and Flay lead an all out assault on the bar only to realize that Georgina isn't being held there, but they do find Slay. In a twist, they also find Caleb, dead. After Caleb's employer, the most powerful and oldest puck named Hobgoblin or Hob, takes Niko and the crown, the remaining use Flay's wolf sense of smell to track Hob down. They find out that Hob wants the Calabassa and George in order to steal her psychic ability, and Niko's blood is going to be used to steal George's ability. Caliban has an idea from his earlier escape from Abbagor, and, after separating Hob from the others, he opens a portal to Tumulus, the Auphe realm, and throws the evil puck through before sealing it. Once home, Cal and George are talking about their relationship together. George is trying to get Cal to realize that she loves him and wants to be with him, but Cal is reluctant because he feels that he is a danger to her, especially after everything that has happened. The book ends with Cal closing the door on Georgina after telling her to use her ability to look into the future to assure her own safety.