Pursuing his passion for money, Feng Shui master CF Wong set up Harmoney Private Limited, a firm acting as middleman to potentially lucrative transactions. His first venture though ended in disaster when a supplier of highlighter failed to provide the product with a suitable ink colour. The buyer refused to complete the deal and withdrew payment, but the seller claims contractually, Harmoney was obliged to purchase the merchandise and demand full payment, with not-so-subtle hints of consequences if payment was not met. Desperate for a venture to produce quick cash, CF Wong reluctantly agreed to a special commission - to help ensure smooth promotional launch of the world's most luxurious office and business conference site on board the world's largest and most expensive aircraft, known as Skyparc. But when he learned members of the British Royal family were among the main investors of the project, his enthusiasm began to grow, overcoming his initial unwillingness to fly on the aircraft from Hong Kong to London. When they arrived in HK, his assistant, Joyce McQuinnie, was looking forward to enjoying the luxurious facilities but suddenly, a murder on the aircraft while it was undergoing finishing touches at the HK airport raised security alarms and another round of background checks on everyone who was supposed to join the promotional launch, and Joyce unexpectedly found herself blacklisted and taken out from the entourage. While CF Wong was tasked to ensure no "bad vibes" remained in the aircraft after the murder, Joyce decided to catch up with her friends based in HK, former schoolmates when she had been a student there before. To her surprise, she learned that the suspect in the murder case was none other than her former school mate with OCD, who was aloof in person but highly communicative over the internet. Events took a stranger turn when Joyce was approached by a mysterious man named Jackson, who wanted her to clear the suspect and even had high enough authority to enable Joyce to rejoin the junket. CF Wong and Joyce got busy investigating the murder during the flight to London, not realising a menace greater than a murderer on the loose threaten the aircraft.