Married to a tenant farmer, Nathan, because her family can't afford the dowry for a better match, Rukmani must leave everything she has ever known and learn how to run a household by herself at the age of twelve. Nathan proves to be a tender, thoughtful husband and Rukmani soon comes to love him. Their first child, a daughter named Irawaddy, is born punctually; then six years pass with no more children. In a society where sons were what mattered most, Rukmani grows desperate. She seeks out the help of an English doctor, Kenny, who successfully treats her infertility. Rukmani eventually gives birth to six more children. Meanwhile, a tannery is built in the village and begins to take over the land. The system of trading, and the quiet way of life for the people who live there is quickly disrupted. Rukmani seems to be the only one who recognizes this as a danger, and stands alone in her protest against modernization. Irawaddy is married off to a well-placed young man; then Rukmani's two eldest sons leave her to go work at a tea plantation in faraway Ceylon. After several years Irawaddy, divorced by her husband because she is barren, returns home. The family endure a time of drought and famine, and Rukmani's third son, weak with hunger, is beaten to death while trying to steal a calfskin from the tannery. Her youngest son Kuti begins to starve. Irawaddy is forced to turn to prostitution so she can provide food for her baby brother. Despite the extra food, Kuti dies. Irawaddy becomes pregnant from the prostitution and gives birth to an albino boy. Eventually, the tannery officials buy the land Nathan has been farming for thirty years and evict him. With nowhere else to go, the couple travel by oxcart and on foot to a city, hoping to move in with one of their sons. The son, however, has gone no-one knows where. Completely destitute, they work as stonebreakers at a quarry in hopes of earning enough money to get home. There Nathan dies. Afterward, Rukmani returns to her home village accompanied by a resourceful street boy named Puli, who has lost his fingers to leprosy. She moves in with her daughter and her youngest son, who is now a doctor at the hospital Kenny has built.