Ever since Wallace Wallace (main character) was young, he has insisted on telling the truth. After scoring the winning touchdown for the Bedford Middle School football team in the championship Wallace Wallace, he becomes a popular guy. What the entire town and most of the football team don't realize is that Wallace is really a benchwarmer, whose winning touchdown was a fluke. His former best friend, football team captain Steve Cavanaugh, knows that the winning move was lucky and has cut ties with Wallace because of it. When Wallace is assigned to write a report on the book Old Shep, My Pal, he won't lie about his feelings. He dislikes the book and writes a negative review, which results in a detention handed down by his English teacher, Mr. Fogelman, until he writes a quality review. His detention is spent with the drama club, which is currently producing a play version of Old Shep, My Pal. Wallace is initially bored, but soon impresses the club members with his charisma and suggestions for improvement. When his detention is complete, he quits the football team to join the drama club. The student body does not take this lightly, as they view him as the hero of the team. Soon after Wallace joins the club, an unknown person vandalizes the play set and rehearsals. One club member, Rachel Turner, believes Wallace is the culprit. Everyone else initially regards him as a hero and refuses to believe her, but when one of Wallace's practice jerseys appears during the final sabotage attempt, they turn against him. Rachel changes her mind to believe that Wallace isn't the vandal. Wallace is eventually banned from the play entirely. Despite his ban, the drama club decides to use Wallace's ideas for the play, including having Shep live at the end. This decision results in disaster when the saboteur blows up the prop Shep during the performance—just as the actors praise his miraculous recovery. Meanwhile, Wallace figures out that the culprit is Rachel's brother Dylan, who wanted revenge because he felt the play had ruined the famous Wallace Wallace. Consequently, Wallace tells his first lie to spare Rachel's feelings. After her initial anger at Wallace, she realizes on her own that Dylan was behind the attacks. Wallace and Rachel recognize their mutual feelings of love, and plan to go on a date together. Furthermore, Cavanaugh and Wallace make up and are friends again.