Josh's main talent lies in the piano, having been taught by his mother. He and his friend Howie were praised by their teacher, Miss Crowne. However, while living with the continuous ridiculing and temper of his father, he sets upon the decision to leave Chicago and find a living on his own. His mother, Mary, supports his decision against her will, realizing that Josh's conflicts with his dad, Stefan, and their entire family's lack of food would eventually lead to deeper problems. Despite Josh's reluctance to accept Joey, Howie convinces Josh to bring him along, which later turns out to be a good decision. With the hope that their musical talents could earn them a living, they set out. Howie brought his banjo, and Joey was a great singer. On the first day, Joey's singing combined with Howie's talented playing allowed the trio to gain 78 cents. Josh realizes Joey's importance and no longer regrets bringing him along. However, while trying to get to Nebraska by riding on a freight train, a tragedy fell upon the trio. Howie, while running alongside a train which the brothers had already boarded, was struck by a train coming from the opposite direction. Though quite grieved, Josh and Joey continued, even declining the hospitality of a kind man. The two managed to survive by begging, despite Josh's humiliation at doing such a thing. Finally, in a stroke of luck, the two received the warmth of a woman who persuades Joey to write home to their mother. They also become acquainted with Lon Bromer a.k.a. Lonnie, a truck driver. Lonnie lost a child named David who would be as old as Josh, if he were alive. Lonnie brought the brothers to Baton Rouge, Louisiana. There, Josh and Joey received a job at a carnival run by Pete Harris. Lon leaves the two with his address and they promise that they would write to him. At the carnival, Josh befriends a dwarf named Edward C., who helps Josh by introducing him to the other carnival people. Josh took a special interest in a clown named Emily. Josh finds Emily extremely attractive despite the differences in their ages; he was 15 years old and she was 30. Josh felt certain desires towards her, and accompanied her whenever possible. When he discovered that Emily was engaged to Pete Harris, he almost completely throws away any relations with her. They later reconcile. Unfortunately, the carnival burns down, so Josh and Joey leave Baton Rouge with $18 Josh saved up and $2 that Pete Harris gives them. The pair ends up traveling with a bootlegger named Charley, who is transporting beer in his car. Charley gives Josh a $20 bill in exchange for his smaller bills. Josh passes a store that sells shoes and he goes in, planning to buy some overshoes for Joey. He tries to pay for the $1.50 shoes with the twenty dollar bill, but the shopkeeper takes all of it, instead of giving him the change. Once the money is gone the two then resorted to begging again. One of the women they meet at first refuses to help them, but then changes her mind out of guilt and invites the two to have soup. Joey repays her the next day by offering her half of a loaf of bread he had gained while begging. Furious at Joey for giving away their hard-earned food, and hampered by his own sickness of pneumonia, Josh strikes Joey. Joey vows to leave him, and indeed does leave, taking along Howie's banjo. When Josh is unable to find him, he falls unconscious from the cold and sickness. He is discovered with Lonnie's contact information in his wallet. When Josh wakes up, he finds himself at Lonnie's home in Omaha, Nebraska. Josh discovers that Joey has not been found, and describes to Lonnie what happened. Josh also meets Janey, Lonnie's niece. The two soon become fond of each other and fall in love. Josh finds renewed hope in the new President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Lonnie, worried about Joey and sends postcards to Mary and Emily. When Mary responded, Josh was surprised that Stefan is having sleepless nights over Josh and Joey. Joey is found after being described in a radio announcement and a happy reunion occurs. They find a new job working at a restaurant as a pianist and singer, and immediately become popular, despite Joey's occasional offtune singing. Josh and Janey part ways, leaving sorrow in their hearts. Josh and Joey return to Chicago and back to their father, who, surprisingly, comes to meet them at the train station and breaks down into tears, after which Josh notices he and his dad share many things in common.