In spite of his father willing him to be a preacher, Baldwin says he has always been a writer at heart. He is trying to find his path as a Negro writer; although he is not European, American culture is informed by that culture too - moreover he has to grapple with other black writers. Baldwin castigates Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin for being too sentimental, and for limning black slaves as praying to white God so as to be cleansed/whitened. Equally, he repudiates Richard Wright's Native Son for portraying Bigger Thomas as an angry black man - he views that as an example of stigmatising categorisation. When considering the Nigger as a social problem, Baldwin suggests harking back to the past. He goes on to criticise Richard Wright's Native Son as ensconced in its zeitgeist. To his mind the good/bad guy virgule when it comes to Negroes must be turned into good Negroes. Baldwin criticises Carmen Jones, a film adaptation of Carmen using an all African-American cast. Baldwin is unhappy that the characters display no connection to the condition of African-Americans, and sees it as no coincidence that the main characters have lighter complexions. Baldwin points out that the rent is very expensive in Harlem. Moreover, although there are black politicians, the President is white. On to the black press, Baldwin notes that it emulates the white press, with its scandalous spreads and so forth. However the black Church seem to him to be a unique forum for the spelling out of black injustice. Finally, he ponders on antisemitism amongst blacks and comes to the conclusion that the hatred boils down to Jews being white and more powerful than Negroes. Baldwin tells the story that happened to the Melodeers, a group of jazz singers employed by the Progressive Party to sing in Southern Churches. However, once in Atlanta, Georgia, they were used for canvassing until they refused to sing at all and were returned to their hometown. They now enjoy success in New York City. Baldwin explains how his paranoid and angered father died of tuberculosis when he himself was 19 years old. Prior to that Baldwin had been taken to the theatre by a white teacher of his, and his parents had let him go because she was a teacher. Later he worked in New Jersey and was often turned down in segregated places - once he hurled something at a waitress in a diner. He goes on to say that blacks doing the military service in the South often got abused. Finally, he recounts his father's death which occurred just before his mother gave birth to one of his sisters; his father's funeral was on his 19th birthday. This essay is an attempt to do away with the hatred and despair he feels towards his father. There are always three underlying factors in James Baldwin's writing: the story, the white supremacy during the 1940-1950, and the question Baldwin is always trying to answer... What is really the blacks' role in America? Baldwin compares Black Americans to Blacks in France. Whilst Africans in France have a history and a country to hold on to, Black Americans don't - their history lies in the United States and it is in the making. Baldwin explains how Americans living in Paris cannot be true Parisians; they are either homeward-bound or 'too' well-adjusted. Baldwin recounts getting arrested in Paris over the Christmas period in 1949, after an acquaintance of his had stolen a bedsheet from a hotel, which he had used. The essay stresses his cultural inability to know how to behave with the police. Baldwin looks back to his time in a village in Switzerland - how he was the first black man most of the other villagers had ever seen. He goes on to reflect that blacks from European colonies are still mostly located in Africa, whilst the United States has been fully informed by African Americans.