The novel picks up a couple years later with Larten Crepsley and Wester who are part of a small group of cubs. But after a bad incident with a Vampaneze named Randel which resulted in the death of Zula in a duel, they leave the war pack and go in search of Seba Nile. Part two of the book starts out with Seba, Larten and Wester observing the American civil war. They meet up with Vancha March and soon realize that Seba wants them to meet up with Lady Evanna in hopes that one of them would be chosen by her as a mate, which could result in vampires becoming the dominant species. Evanna is amused with Larten and grants him permission to find her whenever he wants to. In part three of the book another council at Vampire Mountain is hosted and Larten does better in his duels than he did previously thus catching the eye of some generals and princes. He then begins his training to become a vampire general while Seba pursues his new job of Quartermaster and Wester becomes part of a Vampaneze hater group. Larten, a few month before finishing his training, falls out with the Vampires and seeks more of the world. At the beginning of part four in his travels he meets up with Vancha for a short while and soon goes to find Evanna again. He ends up disrespecting her while being drunk and ends up fleeing for his life with a large cut on his face. One of Evanna's assistants Malora tags along with Larten on the night he leaves. She helps him with the vampire he contracted after a visiting with Evanna. Larten later insists on traveling to Greenland in a ship and Malora does her best to collect blood and make sure he doesn't reveal his true self while on the ship. But inevitably he consumes blood from a woman with a baby on the boat and reveals himself as a vampire. Malora sacrifices herself to give him more time. Meanwhile he recovers and kills almost everyone on the boat once he see's Malora's corpse hanging by the neck. He keeps a single crew member and a couple of people to feed off of. But he is torn by his conscience since he could only find the baby and not the mother on the boat. He then discovers that one of the people he kept in the storeroom has killed and cannibalized the others claiming that Larten can't kill him now since he is a vampire like him. Larten then proceeds to jump off the boat with the baby and rows to shore in a small boat.