After leaving the monastery in the previous book, Odd found a place to stay in Magic Beach with a retired actor. While out for a walk one morning, he finds a woman whom he had been seeing in his dreams; a young, pregnant woman who calls herself Annamaria. After being assaulted and nearly killed by a large man with two henchmen in tow, Odd is separated from Annamaria, though he uses his psychic magnetism to find her. Once he finds her they decide they need to leave immediately, but while making preparations to do so they hear a car door slam. They manage to find a spot to hide until after the men who had been chasing them leave. With the men now gone, Odd and Annamaria set out walking. On their walk, they encounter a large pack of coyotes that Annamaria somehow persuades to leave. After leaving Annamaria with a trusted friend, Odd flees to a local church, where he is subsequently turned in to the sheriff of Magic Beach. The sheriff, a man who seems to have many personalities, believes Odd is a government agent who has come to spy on his operation: the delivery and shipment of multiple nuclear weapons to terrorist groups inside the US via the Magic Beach harbor. Odd manages to convince the Sheriff that he is a government experiment gone wrong and that he is willing to help the sheriff. While the sheriff is setting up a transaction to buy his loyalty Odd manages to enrage the spirit of Frank Sinatra, who began accompanying him after the departure of Elvis. The rage caused by his spirit creates a violent whirlwind, and in the confusion Odd is able to escape from the police department. He quickly makes his way down to the harbor and is able to board the craft that is carrying the nukes. Though he does not want to, he is forced to kill everyone on board. Odd manages to run the boat aground in a nearby cove and ensures that the Coast Guard, DHS, and FBI are all aware of what the boat contains. He leaves the nuclear detonators in a Salvation Army donation bin, but his intuition tells him that something else is wrong. Odd returns to the church where he left Annamaria, whom he intends to leave Magic Beach with in the Mercedes he was lent. Odd discovers that the priest and his wife were both involved with the sheriff's plan to sell nuclear weapons through Magic Beach. The priest kills his wife and is then killed by the sheriff, who is in turn killed by one of his henchmen. The henchman, identified primarily as 'Meth Mouth' talks to Odd, still believing him to be a psychic government agent. While laughing over a joke of Odd's, Odd shoots him under the table with the wife's gun. The story ends with Odd and Annamaria leaving Magic Beach. Odd is sobbing over the murder of so many people, almost all at his hands. Annamaria comforts him with the knowledge that while he may have ended a few lives, he saved millions more. She then pulls the car over and asks Odd to show her the constellation Cassiopeia. Odd and Stormy would often point out Cassiopeia together as that was Stormy's mothers name, so Annamaria's request startles him, but he points the constellation out to her.