Martha goes away every summer from her home in Wisconsin to visit her grandma, Godbee, on the Atlantic Ocean. Right before she left for Godbee's place, she received a journal page from Olive's mother after Olive died. Before receiving the journal page, Martha didn't know about Olive, who admired Martha for who she was even though they never talked to school or hung out. After Martha read the journal page from Olive, she felt regret not to be nice to her. She also find many common grounds with Olive, both of them love the ocean, both of them want to be a writer. Every day she and Godbee will tell about their secret to each other. While there, Martha develops a crush on one of Manning boys living nearby. Her older brother, Vince, is friends with them. She begins to spend more time with Jimmy Manning. She tells Godbee about him and all she has to say is to be careful. Jimmy is interested in film making and shoots a video. He asks Martha to join the love scene in his video taking and Jimmy kissed Martha. Martha is outraged when she learns he only did it for his video and to win a bet with the other boys. At the same time, though, she is heartbroken. Jimmy's younger brother, Tate, who is Martha's age and secretly likes Martha, wants to help her. Before Martha leaves she gets jar and fills it with the ocean water to give to Olive's mom in order to fulfill Olive's dream. It said in the letter that Martha received from Olive's mother that Olive had always wanted to go to the ocean. This would be "Olives Ocean." Martha says good-bye to her aging grandmother Godbee. All Martha hopes for is that she will be able to see her next summer as well. As she is leaving for Wisconsin, Tate stops her and hands her a bag containing Jimmy's tape of Martha and Jimmy kissing. In an accompanying note, he tells her that he likes her. At home in Wisconsin, Martha goes to Olive's mother to give the ocean water to her, only to find that Olive's mother had moved to Washington or Oregeon. Martha writes 'Olive' with ocean water on the front step of Olive's house until the water runs out. Martha stays until the sun dries up the word 'Olive'. And Olive who had been in her mind a long time finally gets forgotten. And then Martha returns home where her loving family is. The book will be made into a motion picture starring Elle Fanning.