This novel predominantly follows Luce, full name Lucinda Price. She is a 17 year old girl who is reincarnated over and over again for an indeterminate number of lifetimes. As she reaches her seventeenth year she meets her angel boyfriend, Daniel, in each life time and is engulfed by flames. This is usually the result of kissing Daniel, but not always. Luce dies as a result of her encounters with Daniel and is reincarnated to repeat the cycle. The lifetime focused on in the Fallen series is unusual. Luce has kissed the very hot Daniel and survived it. Also, Luce was not baptized in this timeline which makes her unclaimed by any religion. This is alleged to mean this time when Luce dies, it will be forever. She has also discovered that Daniel is a fallen angel and he is to be a deciding force in the final battle between good and evil. Luce wants to get rid of the curse and Daniel chases her through history. Little does Daniel know, the future could change differently not because of Luce, but because of a certain person who will try helping Luce travel into her different past lives. Daniel and his other fallen angel friends and nephilim friends will try to catch up with her and bring her back to the present. As Luce travels through time, she will realize not only how much Daniel loves her, and how much she misses to being in his arms, but she will also be in danger from the one who is trying to help her. This book will reveal the secrets and risks that the main characters had and will have in the future. Will they succeed in their mission? The book was released on June 14, 2011. * Lucinda 'Luce' Price After the events in Torment, she will try to travel to her different past lives to find out what are the secrets Daniel is hiding from her, and she will find a way to end the curse that both their love has. * Daniel Grigori Luce's fallen angel boyfriend. He will try to bring Luce back to the present, from the shadows. He will realize that he, himself, can do something to end their curse. He and Cam are brothers... * Cameron 'Cam' Briel Cam is also a fallen angel. He will try to help Daniel recover Luce from the shadows, but Daniel would always refuse help. His past will be revealed and the reason for his being "evil" will be known. Cam and Daniel are brothers. * Arriane Alter Arriane is another fallen angel, from Daniel's side. She will be one of the few who will try to get Luce back from the shadows. * Roland Sparks He is another fallen angel, from Cam's side. He will be able to speak to Luce in one of her past lives and know that she is from the future. * Mary Margaret 'Molly' Zane Fallen angel on Cam's side. Who has never gotten on with Luce since the beginning. * Gabrielle 'Gabbe' Givens Gabbe is a fallen angel on the side of Daniel. She tries her best to convince Daniel to side with Heaven. * Miles Fisher He is one of the Nephilim, and one of the first friends that Luce makes in Shoreline (in Torment). He proved how much he loves Luce in Torment. He will be helpful to Daniel in this book and he will soon be in good terms with him. * Shelby A Nephilim friend of Luce. She will be with Miles looking for Luce in the shadows. * Annabelle She was introduced briefly in Fallen, but will play some more minor roles in Passion. She is introduced to Luce as Arriane's older sister, with pink hair and calmer than Arriane. * Lucifer/Bill The first fallen angel. One of the reasons of the start of the Heaven War. He tricks Luce in the announcers appearing as a little gargoyle, Bill. He tries to make Luce kill herself. * Lyrica One of the remaining Elders. * Vivina One of the remaining Elders. * Fallen Angels According to the Bible, a fallen angel is an angel who, coveting a higher power, ends up delivering "the darkness and sin." The term "fallen angel" indicates that it is an angel who fell from heaven. The most famous is Fallen Angel Lucifer himself. The Fallen Angels are quite common in stories of conflict between good and evil. * Nephilim They are the children of fallen angels with mortals. * Outcast A particular rank of angels. Cam describes them as the worst kind of angel. They stood next to Satan during the "revolt", but did not step into the underworld with him. Once the battle ended, they tried to return to heaven, but it was too late. He also mentions that when they tried to go to hell, Satan cast out permanently, and left them blind. Nevertheless, the outcasts have a tremendous control of the other four senses. In "torment", they chased Luce because they think that if they captured her, they will get back to heaven. * Elders It is not explained very well what the elders are, but they want to see Luce dead more than anything. Miss Sophia is the eldest and most important member. * Scale Resident guide within the "Announcers" (also known as the "Shadows").