In the 1920s, at a hospital in Bozeman, Montana, a boy named Petey is born. His mother is devastated when she sees his twisted figure. Petey looked nothing like a normal baby should. The doctor who took care of Mrs. Corbin's childbirth tells her that Petey is an idiot and that he should be institutionalized. Devastated, she and her husband spend two years and much money to find a doctor who can give them good news, but all diagnose their son as an idiot. The Corbins decide to give up on their hope and let Petey go to the Insane Asylum in Warm Springs, Montana. The story then switches its point of view to following Petey's life in the asylum. Crowded, unsanitary, and terrible, the institution appears awful to Petey. When nurses care for him, they do it lazily and improperly, some even abusing him. A male nurse named Esteban begins to work at the institution and quickly befriends Petey. Whenever he can, Esteban talks to Petey and brings him chocolate, as Petey is "his favorite". Esteban understands (unlike most people) that Petey is not an idiot and that it is just his body that is different. Esteban believed that Petey could think like anyone else, but that he was trapped in his twisted body. Esteban was right all along. The boss at the asylum fires Esteban for telling civic leaders from Butte that Petey isn't an idiot. At the age of 11, Petey is transferred into the Men's Ward. Soon after, he notices a family of mice living in his room. They are his only joy until a new person, named Calvin, moves into Petey's room. Mildly retarded, and club-footed, Calvin quickly becomes Petey's best friend, and the two spend all their time together. After befriending Joe, a nurse, Petey and Calvin have some sort of father figure in their lives. As Joe ages, the disease in his muscles becomes worse and he leaves Warm Springs. When Joe was there, the Insane Asylum started to show very old movies like cowboy movies. For Christmas, Joe gives each Calvin and Petey candy and a toy pistol. He also gives Petey a plaque that has an old bible verse on it. Calvin and Petey, age 20, still play like kids. They make shooting noises and play like little 5 year olds. They always end up in a fit of giggles. After Joe, another nurse named Cassie is frequently kind to them and often tells Petey he is handsome. Unfortunately, she leaves for New York because her husband returning from World War II. Petey and Calvin then meet Owen twenty years later. Both men are around forty years old when Owen befriends them. He took them out often and was kind. He soon leaves because he is too old. Cut to part two which takes place many years later in 1990. Petey is now around seventy years old and living in a nursing home in his hometown of Bozeman, Montana. He is constantly tormented by local teenagers who often pelt him with snowballs because he is disabled. A kind boy named Trevor Ladd witnesses one of these attacks and intervenes, eventually befriending him. A remarkable friendship builds between the two that teaches Trevor about trust, dignity, respect, growth, understanding, wisdom and love that ultimately make Trevor appreciate life more. They are friends until Petey becomes very ill. They don't become only friends, but Trevor asks Petey to be his grandfather. Petey tells Trevor to go have fun without him while he is still in the hospital.