The story takes place in Lancaster College in 1967. The board discusses what to do with a surplus of money. One proposal is to create a building on a nearby meadow to be able to let in more students. Undergraduate Hugh Balliston is drawn into revolutionary activities by Fellow Tony Beck and the unknown revolutionary Mayerston, much to the dismay of his girlfriend Hetta Frith. Tom Llewyllyn, a fellow of the college since 1963, has become impotent and has an unhappy marriage with Patricia. Daniel Mond, the mathematician who was the protagonist of The Sabre Squadron (15 years earlier) is a (literally) quiet man who can only speak in whispers because of a self-inflicted injury to his throat, but who is still teaching mathematics. Among other teachers is the odd Lord Beyfus and his friend, the somewhat radical Mona Corrington. Through Hugh, Mayerston is trying to start violent protests on the campus but most of them end up as fiascos since the Provost of the College, Robert Constable, treats them with a mixture of contempt and tolerance. Isobel advises Patricia to take a lover and she ends up in bed with Hugh who she, in a farcical scene, must shut in the wardrobe when her daughter unexpectedly comes home. Llewyllyn and Mond invite old friend Fielding Gray to the college but he is rather soon picked up by his over-protective mistress Harriet Ongley. Hetta, who has left Hugh, cries on the shoulder of lord Beyfus, who very much likes to comb her hair. The atmosphere in the school turns to the worse and Mayerston uses more violent methods. During a ceremony in the Chapel (with several of the known characters attending) he and his followers burst in to the building and try to destroy the altar and the statue of Henry VI. Tom Llewyllyn saves the statue by use of force and Hetta, fed up with the revolution, protects the altar with assistance from Lord Canteloupe and some other people. During the tumult she is, however, killed by a blow to the head. This tragedy kills also the revolutionary atmosphere of the college. Tony Beck and Mayerston disappear. Constable makes note of how the conservative side have gained a “martyr” in Hetta and find this of some use to keep things calm. Lord Canteloupe comforts the sad Lord Beyfus by giving him the address of the whore Maisie. Patricia comforts Hugh, forgiven for his revolutionary mistakes, in bed. sv:Places Where They Sing