The story introduces an exclusive group of friends: Alison DiLaurentis, the perfect yet manipulative queen bee, Aria Montgomery, an independent girl who is considered to be the weirdo in Rosewood, Emily Fields, a swimmer who holds secret feelings for Alison, Hanna Marin, the overweight girl who strives to be thin and popular like Alison, and Spencer Hastings, an ambitious girl who is brave enough to stand up against Alison's manipulative ways. Alison mysteriously disappears during a sleepover with the girls before their 8th grade school year begins. The story then jumps 3 years after, where the girls are now separated. Aria returns to Rosewood from a 3 year trip to Iceland with her family and comes back much more sophisticated than before she left. She meets and kisses a guy in a local bar who is revealed to be her English teacher, Ezra Fitz. Emily befriends the new girl in town, Maya St. Germain,and soon develops romantic feelings for her. Hanna lost the weight and is the new popular girl in town alongside the former nerd, Mona Vanderwaal. However, she and Mona will sometimes shoplift. Hanna battles urges to turn back to bulimia, and struggles to mange the stress of keeping her Queen Bee status. Spencer continues to struggle against the rivalry with her and Melissa Hastings, her perfect older sister. Problems occur when she begins to feel attracted to Melissa's new boyfriend, Wren Kim, when he is introduced to the family. Throughout the story, the liars get messages threatening to reveal their sexual secrets and their present and past emotions for each other, including a terrifying incident the girls refer to as "The Jenna Thing". They automatically believe it is their missing friend, Alison, because she is the only one each of them confided to with their darkest secrets. However, they are shocked when the police find her corpse buried in the backyard of her former house. This could only mean that A is not Alison, but whoever else knew their secrets. The book ends with the liars receiving a text at Alison's funeral saying, "I'm still here, girls. And I know everything. -A"