"People should not think being seven and a half years old was easy, because it wasn't." At least Ramona's father has a job again, so the Quimbys host a party to celebrate. Burdened with the task of keeping spoiled little Willa Jean out of everybody's way, Ramona gives Willa Jean a box of tissues and shows her how to pull them out one by one. Ramona does not want Willa Jean to touch any of Ramona's toys. When Willa Jean strews tissues through the house, the guests decide that it is time to go home. When someone remarks that Ramona was just like Willa Jean at that age, Ramona feels hurt and upset. She does not believe that she was ever such a pest. When Mrs. Quimby states that she could not get along without Beezus, Ramona feels isolated and unappreciated by her family. Now that both their parents are working full time, everyone has to do their share around the house. One day the Crockpot does not get plugged in, and it leads to an argument between Mr. and Mrs. Quimby that frightens the sisters who are afraid that the argument will result in Mr. and Mrs Quimby getting a divorce. That night they comfort each other, and Beezus tells Ramona that she will always be there to look after her. The next morning, Beezus and Ramona are surprised to discover their parents sitting at breakfast together and sharing the newspaper. The girls learn that marital "spats" are part of life, and do not always end in divorce. Mr. and Mrs. Quimby explain that arguing is normal and that Beezus and Ramona fight. Ramona feels that the comparison is not the same thing and orders her parents to never fight again. Tempers flare again when Beezus refuses to let her mother cut her hair. Mrs. Quimby normally cuts Ramona and Beezus' hair, but Beezus rebels and saves her allowance to get her hair cut at the student hairdressing academy. This makes Ramona happy, as she is still feeling jealous of Beezus's relationship with their mother. When the appointment goes wrong and Ramona ends up with a cute haircut, while Beezus' looks awful, Ramona decides it is nicer when everyone in the family is happy. Matters become complicated once more when Mrs Quimby purchases a new pair of pajamas for Ramona. Ramona is happy because for once, she receives clothing which is not inherited from Beezus. She loves her new pajamas so much that she wears them to school underneath her clothes. Her teacher, Mrs. Rudge, finds out and promises she that she will not reveal Ramona's secret to anybody. Later Ramona overhears a phone conversation that causes her to feel betrayed. She becomes angry, argues with her parents, and decides to run away. No one tries to stop her. In fact, her mother helps pack a suitcase, which shocks Ramona. Than she realizes Mother made it too heavy for her to carry on purpose. "I couldn't get along without my Ramona", her Mother says.