Quenthel Baenre, Pharaun Mizzrym, Jeggred Baenre, and Danifae continue their journey in the Demonweb Pits without Valas Hune, who disappeared shortly before the story began. Halisstra Melarn, with her new faith in Eilistraee, the Dancing Goddess, journeys with Uluyara and Feliane to fulfill her destiny as the slayer of Lolth, the Spider Queen, Goddess of Chaos. As the journey continues, Both Quenthel's and Hallistra's groups are attacked by numerous beings along the way, soon coming into combat with each other. Quenthel's companions easily defeat Hallistra's, sacrificing the drow Uluyara to Lolth in the process. Danifae strikes Halisstra down in the battle and leaves, believing her former mistress to be dead. Hallistra awakens later, however, bitter and angry. In her rage over losing, and her rage at Eilistraee for allowing it to happen, she throttles Feliane's weak body and soon destroys the Crescent Blade. This turns her from Eilistraee's faith back to her faith in Lolth. Quenthel's group later runs into a mercenary demon army, hired by Vhaeraun, the Masked Lord, in order to thwart his mother's plans and cause Lolth to die. Quenthel summons an extremely powerful demon, and Danifae summons a monstrous horde of spiders, which attack the assembled demonic forces. Halisstra, who followed Danifae, now attacks her in revenge for their earlier battle. Before either priestess becomes victorious, Lolth's tabernacle, the Spider Queen's inner chamber, opens, beckoning all three of her priestesses forth. Pharaun, magically paralyzed from a fight with a demon mage, was left on the ground to die at the hands of a host of spiders. Danifae, Halisstra, and Quenthel enter Lolth's tabernacle and are confronted by Lolth, in the form of 8 giant black widow spiders. The eighth and largest spider grabs Danifae, sucks her empty, and is then slaughtered by the other seven spiders. Danifae is in fact the Yor'thae, or Chosen of Lolth. From the gore rises a new form, essentially a giant black widow body with Danifae's torso. The Spider Queen instructs Quenthel to return to her position as Mistress of Arach-Tinilith, and punishes Halisstra for her heresy. Halisstra, now the 'battle-captive', is transformed into the Lady Penitent, reborn to eternally hunt and kill worshipers of Lolth's daughter, son, and former consort. Before returning to Menzoberranzan, Quenthel sacrifices Jeggred to the resurrected Lolth as a gift, and as punishment for opposing Quenthel earlier.