Luik is the young son of Lair, one of the minor kings of Dionia, a world where no sin, pain, or problems exist. At least, that's how it has been for centuries. When this story begins, strange occurrences are starting to befall Dionia. Malice, jealousy, greed and physical injury are beginning to mar this perfect world. The wise kings know that this is the work of Morgui, traitorous former servant of Dionia's ultimate ruler, the Most High. In response to this growing evil, war measures are taken, the chief of which is the selection of the sons of Dionia's kings to train as elite warriors. While Luik, along with the other Kings' sons, is brought by Gorn, a powerful man with experience from a past war, to island of Kirstell, his childhood friends are also experiencing changes in their lives. His talented princess friend Anorra is learning, under a separate trainer, how to physically as well as mentally fight against the coming evils. Another of his old comrades, Hadrian, is trying to cope with the loss of his father, who seems to have reverted to Morgui and has disappeared from Dionia. Lastly, young Fane is now being trained by Li-Saide, dwarf servant of one of Dionia's kings, learning to hear messages in the water and wind and being trained in wisdom. On Kirstell, a place mainly free from the spreading effects of evil, Gorn trains the eighteen boys for four years into men, warriors, the Dibor. When they are at last ready to defend their people, Gorn brings the fighters back to the heart of Dionia, its capitol, Adriel Palace. On the route they experience a skirmish in the city of Jahdan. The Dibor fight and overcome a massive army of Dairne-Reih, also known as Dairneags, demons working for Morgui. At Adriel itself, Luik and a portion of the Dibor engage in a devastating battle against the demons, while the rest, headed by Gorn, attempt to find Morgui himself. King Ragnar, the leader of Dionia's human kings, is assassinated, both Luik's father and another king perish in the battle, nearly all Dionia's soldiers present are killed, and Luik himself is badly wounded. Fane and Li-Saide, who had attended King Ragnar in his last hours - during which he named "his son" heir, much to the disbelief and curiosity of Fane, who thought the king had none - take King Ragnar's body through a secret passage and down an underwater tunnel to a secret place. While this is going on, Gorn and about half of the Dibor find Morgui's second in command, Velon. The younger warriors first break the arch from which the Dairne-Reih have been entering Dionia and then kill as many of the demons as they can. Meanwhile, Gorn kills Velon after a furious battle and the Dibor escape with their teacher back towards Adriel. As the story ends Luik, semi-conscious, is being borne on a stretcher by the straggling line of soldier and Dibor survivors headed for Mt. Dakka, the last standing greatest stronghold against Morgui.