History suggests that the year is Summer of 1987 as the book begins. Most of the plot follows a mixed-raced man named Gregori Grogorievich. A decorated, but disgraced Imperial Russian Army Major who has left the military for a maritime life in Southeastern Alaska, who has a sport fishing boat which he uses for charters and occasional smuggling. He is hired one day by a Tsarist government official to make a rendezvous with a mysterious woman named Valari Kominskiya, but things go badly as the official gets drunk and tries to rape Valari and kill Gregori, but the official is killed in self-defense and thrown overboard. As Gregori tries to find out how to get out of Russian Amerika with Valari for political asylum, he is betrayed by Valari (who is actually a spy and a high-ranking officer in the Russian Army) for he is captured by the government and falsely charged with the murder of the official (Valari's superior) and with the attempted rape of Valari, and is sentenced to life of hard labor on the Russian-Canadian Highway. After long winter months of being subjected to brutal slavery, he and a group of other prisoners are rescued by a band of native Alaskans and are taken into the wilderness to evade the Russian manhunters called promyshlennik sent to capture or kill the prisoners, especially Gregori. It turns out that Gregori's native Alaskan rescuers are revolutionaries called the Den• Republik that seek to liberate their Yukon lands and Alaska itself from Imperial Russia that has driven them away from their home for hundreds of years, and they offer him a place in their ranks to fight the Russians. Without much choice to go back to his old life, and to have a chance to get revenge for being betrayed by the tyranny and corruption of the Tsarist government, Gregori joins the Alaskan forces. Throughout the winter of 1987 and early 1988, he and the other group of prisoners who also agree to join and fight their common enemy, are trained under the Den• to fight a guerrilla war against the Russian military scattered throughout Alaska while the Den• begin establishing the foundations of their would-be democracy of the new Alaska. At first the rebels are outnumbered in the face of the Imperial forces, but after successful attacks against fortified colonial towns, capturing weapons, recruiting more people of Alaska against Imperialist rule, and military assistance from the US and California, it appears victory for independence is plausible. Although the war to liberate Alaska will go far beyond what Gregori expected of a revolution, from surviving and losing friends to the relentless pursuit from Valari partnered with a vengeful promyshlennik, traitors within the separatist Den• itself, and the unforgiving frontier, to rallying internaional support for the cause to fight an all-out war against the wrath of the Russian Empire that would surely decide the future of all the nations of North America.