The story is set in the early Qing Dynasty during the reign of the Shunzhi Emperor. The ethnic minority tribes in northwestern China are under attack by Qing forces that are attempting to force them into submission. Yang Yuncong helps the tribal people resist the invaders and becomes a revered hero in the region. However Yang is betrayed and attacked by his junior Chu Zhaonan, who has defected to the Qing side. They encounter a sandstorm while fighting. Yang is injured and loses consciousness, but is saved by Nalan Minghui, the daughter of a Qing general called Nalan Xiuji. She nurses him back to health and helps him escape from danger. After leaving Nalan Minghui, Yang Yuncong meets "Flying Red Sash" Hamaya, a legendary heroine in the northwest. Hamaya's lover, the singer Yabulu, had betrayed their tribe and caused the death of her father. Hamaya seeks vengeance on Yabulu, captures him and brings him back to her tribe for punishment. Along the way, they are ambushed by Chu Zhaonan and Qing soldiers. Yang and Hamaya defeat and capture Chu, but Yang releases Chu on account of their past senior-junior relationship. Back in Hamaya's tribe, her fellow tribesmen find Yabulu guilty and want him dead. Hamaya suppresses her sorrow, and personally kills Yabulu to deliver justice. With Yang Yuncong's help, Hamaya emerges as champion in a martial arts contest and is elected to be the new chief of her tribe. By then, Hamaya has secretly developed romantic feelings for Yang. Yang Yuncong continues to help Hamaya and her people fight the Qing army. During this time, he meets Nalan Minghui again and they fall in love with each other. However, Yang and Nalan are not fated to be together, because they stand on opposing sides. Besides, Nalan's parents have agreed to marry her to the Manchu prince Dodo. In grief, Nalan decides to consummate her romance with Yang, and eventually becomes pregnant with Yang's child. On the other hand, Hamaya is also in love with Yang Yuncong, and she has revealed her feelings to him, but he rejects her. Hamaya is heartbroken and her hair turns white overnight, just like her teacher, the "White Haired Demoness" Lian Nichang. Without Hamaya to lead them, the tribal people suffer a crushing defeat by Qing forces. In the meantime, Yang Yuncong leaves northwestern China after learning that Nalan Minghui and Prince Dodo's wedding is going to take place in Hangzhou soon. His eventual fate is revealed in Qijian Xia Tianshan.