The novella tells the story of the local Catholic Priest (Don Manuel) in fictional Valverde de Lucerna, Spain as told through the eyes of Angela, one of the townspeople. Throughout the course of the story Manuel is adored by the people of the town. He is constantly in the service of the townspeople. He refrains from condemning anyone and goes out of his way to help those whom the people have marginalized. Instead of refusing to allow the holy burial of someone who committed suicide, don Manuel explains that he is sure that in the last moment, the person would have repented for their sin. Also, instead of excommunicating a woman who had an illegitimate child, as the Catholic Church would have done, don Manuel arranges a marriage between the woman and her ex-boyfriend, so that order will return to the town, and the child will have a father figure. The people of the town consider him their "Saint" because of all of the good deeds he does. Angela, after a brief stint away for education, returns to the town to live with her mother where she continues to be amazed at Manuel's devotion. Later, Lazarus, Angela's brother returns from the New World, disgusted with the poverty both mental and physical he finds in the town. He too is amazed at Manuel's devotion but believes that "He is too intelligent to believe everything he teaches." It is clear that Lazarus does not have a sense of faith. Angela's and Lazarus's mother passes away. On her death bed she makes Lazarus promise to pray for her- he swears he will. Her dying wish is that Manuel can convert him. Lazarus begins following don Manuel "to the lake" where Manuel is known to walk and think. Time passes and Lazarus takes Communion- to the towns people and he appears to be converted. In reality, Lazarus is only praying for his mother, because it was her wish, not because he has faith. Immediately following the Communion, Lazarus sits down with Angela and tells her that he has something he must tell her: Both Manuel and Lazarus have no faith in God, specifically no belief in an after-life. Angela is upset and incredulous but confronts Manuel about what Lazarus has said. In their conversation it becomes obvious that what Lazarus has said is accurate. Manuel believes that religion and the preaching of religion is the only way for the people to "live content"- Lazarus through their talks had come to admire Manuel's determination to do what he thinks is right despite his lack of belief in the veracity of what he teaches. To that end, Lazarus felt it best to continue that same path by coming back into the fold. Lazarus and don Manuel have a unique connection and understanding at this point in the story, because both are displaying faith when neither truly has faith. Although Angela questions the goodness of such a deed, Lazarus insists that don Manuel is a saint for what he has done all his life for the town. Manuel grows increasingly weak. He is unable to bear the weight of teaching the resurrection when he does not believe it is real. He falls further and further into a depression, the towns people see this as a reflection of Christ in their local priest. When Manuel dies he chooses to do so publicly in the center of the town, and the people see it as their "second Christ." Lazarus takes on Manuel's role until his own death. Angela moves out of town. She finishes her narration by explaining that Manuel was being considered for beatification and that he is being held up as the ideal and exemplar priest.