Introduction (New 2003) In the 2003 edition, Gurley Brown includes a reintroduction to her book and briefly outlines the static situations and changes that the single woman has faced from the 1960s to 2003. *"Chapter 1. Women Alone? Oh Come Now!" The first chapter introduces the single girl to the advantages of her situation, and offers brief advice that will be expanded upon in the following chapters. *"Chapter 2. The Availables: The Men in Your Life" Gurley Brown suggests that the single girl make a list of all the men in her life and then slot them into the following categories: "The Eligibles", "The Eligibles-But-Who-Needs-Them", "The Don Juans", "The Married Man", "The Homosexual", "The Divorcing Man" and "The Younger Man". She then proceeds to advise how to handle the men in each category. *"Chapter 3. Where to Meet Them" The obstacles the single girl faces, and how to overcome them, when meeting men in such environments such as: "Your Job", "Friends of Friends", and "Alcoholics Anonymous". *"Chapter 4. How to Be Sexy" Outlines the different styles of sexy and how to achieve a "sexth sense", and also refers to Alfred Kinsey's reports. *Chapter 5. Nine to Five Includes "Mother Brown's Twelve Rules for Squirming, Worming, Inching, and Pinching Your Way to the Top". *"Chapter 6. Money Money Money" This chapter explains how to stretch your money in areas such as driving and eating, because "nobody likes a poor girl. She is just a drag." *"Chapter 7. The Apartment" Discusses decorating on a budget, hiring a decorator and do it yourself tips such as including "Gobs of Pictures" and how to achieve "A Sexy Kitchen". *"Chapter 8. The Care and Feeding of Everybody" Includes different methods of at home entertaining and recipes for "Three Fabulous Little Dinners and One Semi–Fabulous Brunch". *"Chapter 9. The Shape You're In" The chapter on how to eat well and stay fit with "Gladys Lindberg's Serenity Cocktail", "Ruth West's Stop Dieting! Start Losing!", the "Sexercise" chapter in "Bonnie Prudden's How to Keep Slender and Fit After Thirty", and other methods. *"Chapter 10. The Wardrobe" A quick guide to understanding fashion, shopping and sewing. *Chapter 11. Kisses and Make-Up Step-by-step instructions on cosmetic changes such as make-up, facial hair bleaching (includes formula to mix at home), and contact lenses. *"Chapter 12. The Affair: From the Beginning to End" A step-by-step guide that should prepare a single girl for what will occur, or should occur during the beginning, middle and end stages of an affair. *"Chapter 13. The Rich, Full Life" Includes any advice that did not belong under the previous chapter headings.