Part one begins shortly after Tyler’s return from a European vacation. He is in a relationship with a girl named Anna-Louise, and dreams of working for American Defense Contractor, Bechtel. He is obsessed with his haircare products, having a collection of different brand name products, most featuring names invented by Coupland. The first part of the novel details Tyler’s life in Lancaster, Washington. The town is a near ghost town, after the town’s largest employer, the Plants, was shut down. The effects of the Plants’ shutdown has caused many problems in the town, including the boarding up of many stores in the local mall. Tyler’s family life is composed of himself, his mother, and his two siblings. He calls his mother by her first name, Jasmine. Jasmine is an ex-hippie who is married to an alcoholic man named Dan. At the very introduction of the novel, Dan divorces Jasmine. Tyler, his sister, Daisy, and his brother, Mark, band together to help Jasmine through her troubling time. Tyler’s grandparents are also introduced. They are quite wealthy, but they will not share their wealth with their family members. They have decided to start selling a product satirically labeled KittyWhip, which is a gourmet cat food product line. At the beginning of this part, two of Tyler’s compatriots from his European vacation decide to visit Tyler in Lancaster. They are Monique and Stephanie. Stephanie is Tyler’s secret shame from Europe, as he had a summer relationship with her. Tyler tells us about his European vacation, and the events that lead to him meeting Stephanie, and what it means to have Stephanie visit them in Lancaster. Tyler’s world starts to turn upside down, as his Grandparents lose their fortune, his mother becomes a KittyWhip salesperson, and his relationship with Anna-Louise enters a rough patch. Tyler feels himself become more drawn to Stephanie than Anna-Louise. Tyler, deciding that his life in Lancaster is not interesting enough, leaves with Stephanie to live in Los Angeles. His time in Los Angeles is wrought with strife. Tyler’s worst fear becomes realized as he finds himself working at a chicken fry shop manning the fryer. It is in Los Angeles that Tyler begins to comprehend advice that his mother gave him about loneliness.