Mace Windu's former Padawan and fellow Jedi Master Depa Billaba has been sent to Haruun Kal (Windu's homeworld) to start a revolution against the Separatist-allied government; however, all contact has been lost with her. A message is found on a voice chip inside a dead woman's mouth that implies Billaba has fallen to the dark side of the Force or gone insane. Since Windu taught her the lightsaber combat form Vaapad, he knows he is the only one who can stop her, and so he is sent by the Jedi Council alone to his homeworld. While Haruun Kal is not much of a military target, the majority of the population had many Force-sensitive beings, which the Republic wants to keep away from the Separatists. Billaba had been sent to train the planet's population to fight against the Separatists. This was successful in itself, but after a hologram was discovered showing Billaba killing an innocent person, Windu was sent to extract his former apprentice. Eventually, after a fight, he puts his former apprentice under arrest, and calls the Republic cruiser Halleck. At this time, tribes on the planet begin warring with each other. Halleck arrives in-system, and is immediately attacked by Vulture droids. The ship starts deploying Gunships, which come under attack by the droid starfighters. Clone troopers start spilling out of the Halleck, and put themselves in front of the droid starfighters to destroy them. Some of the landing craft make it to the surface, but many are picked off. The cruiser eventually defeats the Separatist enemy, however. On the surface, Windu uses the gunships to destroy the droid starfighters that followed them onto the surface, then orders the clones to take out a nearby droid control station. Lorz Geptun is forced to surrender to the Republic, and Billaba falls into a coma. All clone troopers on the surface are killed. A Republic force stays on Haruun Kal to police the local tribes. Upon his arrival on Haruun Kal, Windu meets such personages as Planetary Security Chief Lorz Geptun, soldier Nick Rostu, and untrained Force master Kar Vastor. The latter has trained several soldiers, known as the Akk guards, and Windu himself says that Vastor has power on the level of a Jedi. During the course of the book, Windu ends the Summertime War, a conflict that has raged between the immigrant Balawai and the native Korunnai for centuries, in a matter of hours, and takes Vastor into custody. Windu nearly falls to the dark side himself in order to defeat Billaba, who is possibly vegetative at the end of the book.