The book starts by talking about Sid as a kid. Sid did the news run in West Minneapolis after dropping out of high school as a junior. Sid's first reporting job was for the Gophers and was a big supporter of the Lakers. The story then progresses to sports, when pro basketball came to Minnesota. He told how newspapers had interest in sports coming to town because it would sell newspapers. He also says that the Lakers had a huge dynasty from 1947-1957 with Mikel and Mikkelson. He goes on to say that the Twins were a very good team when they even though they thought differently. The Vikings came in 1961 and had a shabby team until Bud Grant came in. He brought the Vikings to 4 Super Bowls and would trust Sid with his life. He then transitions into saying that the Twins weren't as popular in the 1970s as they were in the 1960s. He says that the biggest mistake Calvin Griffith made was firing Martin. Many practical jokes were played on Sid, and Sid may have been the reason that only a few reporters are allowed to talk to officials. Then the books goes on to say that the only way the Viking would stay in Minnesota was if a new stadium was built. Calvin was against a dome. Sid was getting death threats in phone calls. They built the Metrodome for football and had the minimum requirements for baseball. He notes that the Twins were on the verge of going to Tampa Bay when Carl Pohlad bought the Twins after Twin Cities business owners bought the cheap seats for games to get Calvin Griffith to resign. After that, the Twins did well. They won the World Series in 1987 and 1991. The Twin Cities got a lot of sporting events in 1991-1992. They had the US Open, the Twins made it to the World Series, the Super Bowl was held in the Metrodome, and the North Stars made it to the Stanley Cup Finals. He goes on to talk about Herb Brooks and that coached the North Stars and the US Olympic team. In 1980 his Olympic team got the gold medal in hockey. He talks about the 1997 Gopher basketball team and their success made it to the Final Four.