The story begins on the eve of the English Civil War in 1642. Simon Carey is the school age son of John and Anne Carey, of Lovacott Farm, near Great Torrington in Devon. He has a sister, christened Marjory, whom he always calls "Mouse". One day he is the house of his best friend Amias Hannaford with whom he does his schoolwork, when Amias's father Doctor Hannaford announces that the king has raised his standard at Nottingham, and calls for a toast to the king. Simon refuses, because he and his family support Parliament. This leads to a falling out between the families. Simon's father goes off to fight for Parliament but orders Simon to finish school first. One day while Simon is getting his horse Scarlet reshoed in town, a rider falls down in front of him after being pursued and almost run over by the following horses. He and the smith rescue the young rider. Through his knowledge of the area and the introduction of the rescued man Barnaby Colbourne, a Parliament man, he manages to lead retreating Parliament troops under Colonel Ireton past a Royalist stronghold to safety. A few months later, after finishing his education, Simon goes to Windsor to join the New Model Army. He is fortunate to fall in again with Lieutenant Colebourne who recommends him to General Thomas Fairfax. Simon is commissioned as cornet to Colbourne in the Fairfax Horse. One of his subordinates is the devout Corporal, former Ironside 'Zeal-for-the-Lord' Relf. He first sees action in the decisive Battle of Naseby. After the battle Corporal Relf deserts, having learned that his neighbour has stolen all his money from him. He is recaptured and sentenced to the Pioneer regiment, one of the harshest of units, but escapes. Simon's troop heads west and is ordered to capture a house at Okeham Paine, near Exeter, which is held by the Royalists. When they break through he finds himself fighting Amias, who is with the Royalists. Simon is knocked unconscious by a musket butt and is tended by the formidable lady of the house, Mistress Killigrew. He meets and falls in love with her daughter Susanna. After his recovery he is ordered to go to Lovacott to act as a go-between for messages from Parliament spies in the area under Royalist control. One turns out to be Corporal Relf, now called Ishmael Watts, who is hiding with another spy, Podbury, in the tower of Torrington Church above the powder store. While Simon is at home, a Royalist search party led by Amias turns the house upside down, Simon's sister describes him "not quite 'zactly", i.e., not quite right after his head injury, and Amias chooses to believe this to stop further enquiry from his subordinates. It is then that Simon realises their friendship is still alive. When he hears the Parliament army is in Torrington, he rejoins them for the battle there. The Royalists are defeated and 200 prisoners are put in the church. When a huge explosion blows up the church, suspicion falls upon a red-headed man whom Simon recognizes as Amias, because he used a phrase they used as children. He finds him outside the town and brings his doctor father to him. Amias said it wasn't he who blew up the church. Simon is unaware he is being followed by Cornet Wainwright, who has disliked him since Simon took his coveted position as cornet. He and Amias are arrested. Amias is cleared when the dying Ishmael Watts (Corporal Relf) tells the chaplain Joshua Sprigg and General Fairfax that the explosion was an accident. The General forgives Simon, comparing his actions to those of the Biblical Jonathan who protected his friend David. The story ends four years later at Lovacott in April 1649. Simon resigned from the army at the same time as General Fairfax, because both disagreed with the decision to execute the king, although they otherwise approve of the Commonwealth. A ghost from the past, Podbury, reappears and the mystery of the blast that killed 200 Royalists seems to be solved. Simon and Amias are fast friends again and look set to marry Susanna Killigrew and 'Mouse' respectively.