The Diamond brothers are horney as usual. They have just moved into a cheap apartment when suddenly a mysterious man (Jake McGuffin), bursts into their office, tells Tim someone is trying to kill him, an assassin who is trying to murder a Russian diplomat, offers Tim a wad of cash for his coat and disappears as quickly as he came, leaving his own coat behind. When Nick bends down to pick up the coat, something falls out of one of the pockets: a key. There is a plastic tag attached to it and in bright red letters: Room 605, London International Hotel. When Tim and Nick go outside, they find the man lying in a telephone box, dying from a gunshot wound. His last words, drowned out by a train, sounded like "suff bee suff iss", or was it "south by southeast"? Suddenly, the Diamond Brothers are thrown into an extremely hazardous and risky adventure involving MI6 and their chase for Charon. Charon is the code name of an assassin, the head of a gigantic murder organization. Nobody knows who Charon is as he can disguise himself extremely rapidly. There is only one way of recognizing Charon - he has lost a finger, therefore he only has nine. Charon's men are responsible for the murder of Jake McGuffin, who was aware of Charon's plan to murder a Russian diplomat, Boris Kusenov. The Diamond brothers become wanted by the Police after Charon gives Tim a suitcase containing a bomb when he is going for an interview at the bank and it goes off. The boys' later find out what Jake McGuffin said was 'Sotheby's, Tsar's Feast.' They race over to Sotheby's (a famous art auction house in London), where they know that TNT is under the seat. They get into a wrestle which gets the two police officers involved, and the painting gets destroyed. The police officers get credited, and they refer to Nick as 'an unknown boy.' Charlotte Van Dam, a woman they meet in Holland, invites Tim to the tunnel of love at a fair, where she plans to kill him. Nick finds out that Charlotte is Charon, and goes to stop her. Nick's clever thinking makes Charon fall into the river, and she gets electrocuted.