The story is told in three parts : early childhood, life as a domestic servant and life working in a factory. It is told through the eyes of Lu Si-Yan, an eleven year old girl. Her early childhood is described as a rural idyll. She has a doting father who works growing vegetables on a small strip of land. A baby brother is born, whom Si-yan loves. Unfortunately, the father is killed in a road accident and Si-yan's mother, overwhelmed by grief, cannot keep the family going when faced with one disaster after another. Disapproving Uncle Ba takes Lu Si-yan to market to sell her, calling her "Spilled Water" : a waste because she is not a boy. She joins the Chen household as an unpaid domestic servant. She is well fed and well clothed but works very hard. Si-yan is constantly criticised by Mrs Chen. The only people in the household who keep her going are Xiong Fei, an art student employed as a cook, who is also a fun loving young man; and Mr Chen's wheelchair bound mother Mrs Hong. Lu Si-Yan is frightened by the Chen's son Yi-mou, whom she is told she must marry. He acts strangely because he has a brain damage. Mrs Hong finds out what the Chen's are up to, gives Lu Si-Yan money and helps her to escape. Lu Si-yan goes to catch the boat up river, but discovers she had been robbed. A couple, Mr and Mrs Wang, offer to pay her boat fare and to give her a job in their factory. The factory creates toys. The employees work under harsh conditions. They are never paid what they are owed and are forced to work long hours and even overtime. They are only paid a fraction of from their pay. Lu Si-yan is befriended by a group of young women who are optimistic despite being in the same state as Si-yan -- trapped in the factory. Eventually, Lu Si-yan becomes so ill and frail, due to overwork and the poor working conditions, that she is hospitalised. When she regains consciousness, Uncle Ba is by her bedside in the hospital and is terribly remorseful. He brings unlucky news that her Mother has died and he plans to take her and her brother into his home, look after them properly and gain their forgiveness. Lu Si-yan realises that her only option is to go back with Uncle Ba. Si-yan also longs to see her brother. The Uncle promises to send her to school and receive good education. Li Mei, the best of her new factory friends, manages to get some money for Lu Si-yan and enough for Si-yan's trip back home, from the Wongs. The Wongs pay their workers the money that the workers are owed. They are terrified that their poor working conditions and exploitation of minors will be exposed to the public. The main themes of the book are the portrayal of rural versus town life in China, domestic servitude, sweatshops and the role of women. It is also simply and beautifully written. It is rather very exciting, with a few climaxes and twists. I would highly recommend those who haven't read the book yet to quickly get this book and read it!