The book begins with a dedication to the Earl of Breadalbane (presumably John Campbell, the fourth Earl, as the book was first published in 1815). Its "grovelling and abject" tone was unusual by that time. An anonymous preface recounts how an unnamed "Gentleman", on a grouse-shooting visit to the earl's estate in the Lochearnhead region, met Angus McDiarmid, a ground-officer (or ghillie, a gamekeeper and hunting-guide) of the earl's. Struck by McDiarmid's eloquent descriptions of the scenery and associated legends, the gentleman learned that McDiarmid had written a manuscript, which McDiarmid entrusted to him to be published. The preface assures the reader that visitors to Lochearnhead could confirm McDiarmid's existence and his sole authorship of the book. It then praises the "unparalleled sublimity" of the book's style, which it connects with the rugged Highland landscape and offers as the reason that McDiarmid's sentences "overleap the mounds and impediments of grammar". The main text is 28 pages about the region near Lochearnhead. There are three sections: *"Sketch of the Scenery at Loch-Earn" describes the cataract at Edinample; Edinample Castle; two trees knocked down by the wind that later grew straight (the trees were gone by the time the book was written, but the place could still be seen); unusual concave landforms in a moor and on a mountain opposite the castle; Glen Ogle; and Loch Earn with two of its islands, one a crannog or prehistoric artificial island; *"Sketch of the Following Descriptions" describes the nearby mountains of Ben Vorlich, Craig-na-Gaur, Stùc a' Chroin, and Ben Each; some wild animals of the hills; the sheep and black cattle formerly pastured in Glen Ample; the Glen of the Piper, named after a bagpiper who warned the local people of an approaching band of marauders; the beauty of Glen Beich with its cataract; a lake in Glen Ogle where legend says a kelpie killed nine children; one robber who saved another from an arrow wound; some kind of earthquake in the Grampian Mountains; and Edinchip, named after a Roman soldier's hiding from a battle there; *"Sketch of an Ancient History Deserves To Be Inserted" describes a cattle-raid on the region and the defense by a local man, Major Roy of Hens; a sheep-robber; a strong man named Envie; a wolf that entered a cottage; and a remarkable bull attacked by two remarkable wolves. McDiarmid's dedication is in grammatical English, but the main text is not, and is full of obscure and misused words. The paragraph about the earthquake may give an idea: :It merits the trouble to exhibit a description of a part of Glenogle's Grampian mountains, disjointed in the time of the generations past ; which event happen about the twilight, that the dread of the horrible sight seized the beholders with fear, ultera the comprehension of the individual, discernible to their sight. The pillars of fire rising from the parting of the rock, where there was a cement, the stones forcibly dashing one against another, that the melancholy sight was similar to a corner of mountain set wholly on fire, also overhearing such a loud noise of the stones break at juncture ; which vociferous might reach the ears of the people living at great distant. This place perceptible to view of the beholders that passes by.