A summary of Edward Bloor's novel Tangerine, about a boy who discovers that his brother steals and murders---8============>21:34, 1 November 2012 (UTC)72.70.104.124 (talk) 21:34, 1 November 2012 (UTC)(0) The story starts with the Fisher family (Paul, mom, dad, and Erik) move from Houston, Texas to a development called Lake Windsor Downs in Tangerine County, Florida. You learn that Paul is vision impaired. His parents tell Paul it's because he stared into a solar eclipse, but Paul doen's remember it at all. After they unpack, Paul goes for a tour in his school, Lake Windsor Middle school. Mike Costello, a high school football player is introduced, along with his little brother and middle school soccer player, Joey Costello. On his first day of school, he meets Coach Walski, a soccer coach. Paul knows he is a good goalie and tries out for the team. Paul learns that he can't make the team because his mom filled out an IEP (individualized education plan) for him because of his vision impairment. A few days later, while Paul is at his school, a sinkhole collapses. Many try to rescue the people who are trapped and fortunately, no one gets seriously injured. The emergency relocation plan gives the kids the chance to stay or go to Tangerine Middle School (the school on the other side of the county). Paul chooses to go to Tangerine MS because he doesn't have an IEP filed there so he can play soccer. In Tangerine Middle School, many people are introduced including Tino, Henry D., Theresa, and Victor. They all are soccer players at the school, except for Theresa. Paul convinces Joey to come to his new school and the soccer and football seasons begin. As the story proceeds, Joey starts to get sick of the new school because none of Paul's new friends like him and he thinks that Paul has changed and become cowardly to all the other people at TMS. Joey finally went back to Lake Windsor, leaving the Tangerine Middle School soccer team also. Throughout the story, houses in Joey's neighborhood have to be put under blue tents and sprayed with poison to kill termites. While under tents, many of these houses are robbed. Paul suspects it is Erik and Arthur. Luis is also introduced. He is the brother of Theresa and Tino. Luis works at his parent's citris farm and is working on developing a new kind of tree called Golden Dawn. While at Paul's house for a school project, Erik punches Tino who ends up bruised after making a comment about how Erik fell down while attempting to a kick an extra point in a football game earlier in the book. Luis finds out and goes to Erik's football practice to confront him. Erik distracts him while signaling for Arthur to hit him in the back of his head with a blackjack. Luis is fine for a couple of days but is found dead. Only Paul knows the real truth, but others suspect it too. On the night of the Seniors Award Night, tino and victor show up to beat up Erik and Arthur for killing Luis. The two of them escape, and Paul runs back to his house. When he is at the front of his house, he has a flashback from his childhood, the day his vision was damaged. Erik believed that Paul told on Erik and his friend Vincent for spray painting a wall in their old neighborhood, so to get back at him, Erik held Paul's arms behind his back and held open his eyes while Vincent sprayed spray paint in Paul's eyes. He is angry because his parents seem to never get Erik in trouble. Later on in the story, Paul's mom finds a one of Erik's gym bags with gas masks and valuables that he and Arthur stole from the tented houses in the families storage unit on route 22. Erik is sent to jail for robbery, and Arthur for murder. Paul is expelled from school for attacking a coach, but says he will stay in touch with all his friends, including Joey, whom he made up with.