Jen Greenley is a high school junior, who lives in a simple town in Indiana . She is secretly the school newspaper's advice columnist Ask Annie, a job she got due to her ability to keep other people's secrets and help people with their problems - similar to Dear Abby. Teen heartthrob Luke Striker is making a movie about high school, but having grown up on television, he knows nothing about real teens and their lifestyles. Because of this Clayton High's principal assigns Luke as Jen's responsibility; she is expected to show him around the school, help him research his role and most importantly keep secret his true identity from her fellow students. During his time at Clayton High School, he is appalled at the vicious hierarchy of high school and starts to tell Jen that she should start taking a stand for the people who can't speak for themselves rather than just consoling them and letting it happen again and again. Jenny soon realizes that she has voice; using this, she starts making serious changes in the lives of others and herself as well, morphing from "nice little Jenny Greenley, everyone's best friend" to Jen, effector of social change. When Jen finally decides to stand up to Catrina, Catrina becomes furious with Jen and will not speak to her for days. However, despite all the rumors that go around, Jen's feelings for Luke are still platonic. Meanwhile, the school's annual Spring Fling is coming up and Jen has promised to go with Luke, his thank-you for showing him around. At the Spring Fling, Luke reveals that he is going out with Geri Lynn, a senior and friend of Jen's. He also encourages Jen to reveal her true feelings for Geri Lynn's ex, Scott, having found out her affections for him. Also, he has somehow come to know that Jen is secretly Annie, much to her surprise. So Jen, her best friend Catrina along with several other students, head over to a friend's anti-Spring Fling party where Scott is. Nervously Jen agrees to take a walk with Scott during which, after a heated discussion about a book, Scott reveals that the only reason he has not told Jen his true feelings sooner is because he thought that Jen loved Luke. Scott and Jen finally share a kiss and realize their true feelings for one another.