Vlad saves a small goth boy named Sprat, who was being bullied by Bill and Tom. Later on Sprat's group of friends (Goth kids that hang out front of the high school at night that Vlad was eager to talk to but afraid.) came to Vlad’s table at lunch to thank him for saving Sprat. Henry and Meredith, Vlad's girlfriend, disapproved of the goth kids so Vlad decided to go with them to the Crypt (Gothic club). Nelly tries giving the sex talk with Vlad, but he didn't want to listen. They both agreed that Otis will be the one to explain it to Vlad. Vlad has night terrors of a dark figure, and out of the shadow that surrounded it appear a silver blade. Moonlight glinted off its razor sharp surface, the man plunged the blade downward, ripping it through Vlad’s stomach. Later on he finds out that the dreams are from Otis who was captured by D’Ablo. Henry and Vlad end up separating from their friendship demanding Vlad undo the bond between them. When Vlad goes with them he meets a beautiful girl named Snow. After saving Snow from her abusive father He sinks his teeth into her neck sucking her almost dry making her drop to the ground and him leaving her there scared, wanting more of her blood. Later he calls Henry sobbing asking for help, Vlad and Henry end up friends and vampire/drudge again. Both going to face D’ablo and give the journal to him. While walking only ten steps Henry lets out a scream and Vlad turns to see Ignatius, the vampire who’d attacked him before, had Henry by a fistful of hair. A sharp, curved blade was pressed dangerously close to Henry’s throat. Later on finding out that Ignatius is none other than his own grandfather, who wants to kill Vlad and bring honor back to his family’s name. D'Ablo goes and ties Vlad up to a chair and gags him. Later than Vlad gets free. D’Ablo got away after Vlad burnt his hand off. Otis returns to Nelly’s house with Vlad and Henry waiting upon the letter from Vikas stating otherwise. At the freedom Fest Vlad breaks up with Meredith to save her from himself, and goes to the back ally where he once bit into Snow's neck and meets her there. Finally, Vlad bites into her neck because she is now his drudge. they meet frequently for some days. The book ends with a letter that Vlad was supposed to get awhile back containing Otis's teaching on writing in Elysian Code.