The novel takes place in 1969. Erica and Brian Tate are a seemingly happy and successful academic couple. At least, Brian Tate is successful: he is the holder of the endowed Sayles Chair of Political Science at Corinth University in upstate New York. As he reaches his mid-40s, he begins to undergo a mid-life crisis. He is an admirer and scholar of the work of George Kennan, the diplomat who devised President Harry Truman's policy of containment of the Soviet Union at the start of the Cold War. Brian is depressed, however, because Kennan's reputation and influence are in abeyance, and he also realizes that his own ambition of writing a world-altering book will probably never be realized, and that in consequence, he will probably never be called to serve in Washington, D.C. His wife Erica, 40, is also not quite content with her lot. She has a degree from Radcliffe and has published some children’s books but has basically given up any ambition she may have had for a life of full-time motherhood and giving and attending faculty dinners. Now, as their children approach adolescence, Brian and Erica realize they can't stand their own offspring &mdash; their music, their rudeness, and their selfishness. Meanwhile, Brian Tate has been pursued and has gotten involved with a young grad student, Wendy, who to his gratification, admires him greatly. When Erica finds out, Brian breaks off with Wendy, but he soon resumes the affair and impregnates her. The despairing Wendy now considers suicide; an abortion (New York State legalized abortion in 1970, but it had become easier to get one immediately prior to this); or whether to raise the baby, the carrier of precious Tate genes, which, she feels, should be nurtured for the sake of humanity. She has the abortion, but then gets pregnant again and Brian is terrified he will have to marry her, but fortunately she goes off to live in a commune in California with a younger boyfriend. Erica’s situation is paralleled by that of her friend Danielle Zimmern&mdash;recently divorced from her husband Leonard, Danielle has become involved with Women’s Liberation. Erica embarks on an unsatisfying affair with an old friend&mdash;Zed, whom she once considered too homely to take seriously. He had pursued her when they were undergraduates at Harvard and now he runs a counter-cultural bookstore in the town. Zed invites her to participate in an LSD trip. Brian, meanwhile, ends up helping a group of young women&mdash;he is attracted in particular to one, the beautiful young student Jenny&mdash;who want to protest the sexist attitudes of Professor Dibble, a highly conservative colleague in Brian's Department. Brian ends up futilely attempting to support both sides in this battle, to his own discomfiture. We learn that in the war between men and women, as in other wars, when the two sides are extremely polarized, there can be no middle ground.