The story begins with Michael Corleone having a dream in which his brother Fredo Corleone, whom he had killed, warns him of a coming threat. At the same time, the apparition tries to give Michael a message, which he doesn't comprehend. Michael's guilt over ordering Fredo's murder has aged him beyond his years &mdash; his hair has turned white, his diabetes has worsened, and he suffers from chronic insomnia. He is also depressed over his failing relationship with his ex-wife, Kay Adams, and his son, Anthony, who knows the truth about Fredo's death. Carlo Tramonti, a boss of the New Orleans crime syndicate, is introduced as he is deported by the INS to his native Colombia. Meanwhile, Attorney General Daniel Shea (analogous to Robert F. Kennedy) declares his war on the Mafia. Tom Hagen meets with a CIA agent named Joe Lucadello in a Protestant church in Florida. He informs Hagen that Nick Geraci, a former caporegime for the Corleones, has turned up. The book then outlines Nick Geraci's survival in an underground cave under Lake Erie, and how he gets ready to take his revenge. He contacts his father, who helps him get away, and plots his revenge with Momo Barone. Meanwhile, Hagen is implicated in the murder of his longtime mistress, which throws his personal and professional life into disarray. Meanwhile, President Jimmy Shea (analogous to John F. Kennedy), who was elected in part due to Michael's influence, is assassinated by a Cuban national. While the real reason for his murder is never made clear, the novel suggests that it was orchestrated by Tramonti, who wanted revenge for his arrest in a raid ordered by Daniel Shea. Nick Geraci reunites with his family, beginning his revenge against Michael Corleone: * He drowns Tom Hagen in the Florida Everglades. Geraci then sends Michael a package containing a dead baby alligator along with Hagen's wallet, a message similar to the one that is sent to Sonny Corleone in the original novel following Luca Brasi's death. * He meets with his old friend Momo Barone, and promises him the title of consigliere if he agrees to help. Momo agrees, and provides Geraci information on Michael Corleone's daily routine. * Geraci contacts Don Anthony Stracci and asks for his help to depose Michael as head of the Commission. Nick ultimately gets the votes to overthrow Michael. Stracci asks Geraci to meet Don Greco, the Greek, who also because of Stracci's influence was to vote against Michael. Geraci meets him at a restaurant on Staten Island. When he arrives, however, he realizes he has walked him into a trap; Michael arrives and orders Barone to shoot Geraci to prove his loyalty. Geraci grabs the gun, shoots two bodyguards and injures Al Neri, but is mortally wounded in the process. Eddie Paradise delivers the coup de grace, shooting him execution style. Michael also executes the following people: * Carlo Tramonti is shot in the back of his head and thrown off on the highway. * Tramonti's brother, who sought to re-open his brother's murder, dies of "natural causes". * Joe Lucadello has an ice pick rammed into his eye. In the novel's final scene, Michael's sister Connie tells him that Fredo had an illegitimate child with Rita, whom Michael had briefly dated before realizing that he was still in love with Kay. es:El Padrino "La venganza" it:La vendetta del padrino pl:Zemsta ojca chrzestnego