Christopher Prescott, a mathematics graduate student at Memorial University of Newfoundland in St. John's, has just been asked by his girlfriend to move out. In a deliberate attempt to "get on with his life", he goes bar hopping. There, he sees a beautiful red-headed woman drop what appears to be a credit-card or driver's license (in fact, a powerful magical artifact known as a fios stone). He goes to fetch it, hoping to use it as a way to introduce himself, but the woman has walked out. Christopher follows, only to see her walk through a wall in the alley behind the bar. This is Christopher's introduction to The Ways and the world of the Five Clans. The Ways allow those who can perceive them to travel through the memories of the City. His act of kindness plunges Christopher into this world, where arcane deeds and strange creatures are still to be found. He encounters Emma Rowlin, a woman who crossed over from his own world some time ago. Familiar with both frames of reference, she offers to help him find the mysterious red-headed woman. She takes him to the Wandering Parliament, a meeting of the people of the Five Clans: the People of the Cat, the People of the Caribou, the People of the Great Auk, the People of the Codfish, and the People of the Serpent. The Parliament is disrupted by the murder of the Cabinet of one of the Clans, and Christopher finds himself in the middle of apocalyptic changes that threaten to destroy both this world and his own. They also encounter Donovan Chase, a mysterious diminutive Englishman who is trying the find the red-headed woman for his own reasons, and who knows far more than he is willing to share. They soon discover that the murder at the Wandering Parliament is part of a campaign by a new Sixth Clan to take over the Ways. They must stop them, if they are to protect both of the worlds from this new threat. Chase leads Christopher and Emma to the Forgotten Cemetery, where they can ask one of the murdered Cabinet members about the attack. They discover that the purpose of the attack was to steal the Clan's eochair. The eochair are the Keys that control the Ways, and each of the Five Clans controls one. On the way back, the three are separated. Christopher is found by talking cats; in fact, high-ranking members of the People of the Cat. Following prophecy, the Cat's leader imbues him with their eochair. Christopher is destined to be the harbinger of a great change, but whether the change will be for good or for ill nobody knows. Later, reunited with Chase, Christopher finally finds the red-headed woman: Aislinn, a member of the People of the Serpent. The fios stone contains her Clan's eochair. Aislinn was performing a dead drop that was disrupted by Christopher's interference. She has also captured Emma and uses her as a hostage to ensure her escape. Aislinn delivers her Clan's eochair to the Sixth Clan, a gestalt swarm of insects who have already obtained three other eochair. Aislinn receives a reward for her treachery to her own Clan and leaves Emma to the Sixth Clan. Chase and Christopher confront the swarm; to prevent the fifth and final eochair to fall into their hands, Christopher asks Emma to stab and kill him, which she does. This places the eochair beyond the reach of the swarm; thwarted, the enraged swarm loses their cohesion and release the energy of the other eochair, which in turn effectively destroys their ability to recreate the gestalt. Though Christopher dies, he is brought back from the brink by the dissipating energy of the eochair he carried. He is taken back to the cats, who succeed against all odds in healing him. The dissipation of the eochair preserved the Ways, and may even help restore the declining world of the Five Clans. Christopher and Emma are not yet in love, but they are certainly fond of each other and willing to explore the possibilities. And Donovan Chase still has his original task to complete: he finds Aislinn, hiding in the Russian Arctic.