Rushton returns from a journey around the highlands and immediately calls a meeting of all the leaders of the guilds (guildmerge). At the meeting, Elspeth and Pavo propose a joint expedition of their guilds to the West Coast, in order to recover an untouched Beforetime (time before Great White) book cache, as well as rescue a person with very strong mental abilities. Rushton proposes a safe house be set up in the capital, Sutrium, so they can be informed of the Council’s movements, with that person joining their expedition. This expedition is unanimously approved. Suddenly her cat Maruman falls into a fitful coma and Elspeth enters his mind to help bring him to. Inside his mind, a voice of an Agyllian reminds Elspeth of her promise to destroy the weaponmachines, a journey she must make alone. Later, Zarak bumps into an unknown Misfit mind while farseeking, who is a novice Herder in Darthnor cloister. Elspeth contacts the novice, named Jik, who initially believes she is a demon sent to test his faith. After subsequent conversations, she reveals she too is a Misfit and offers him a home at Obernewtyn. A small group of Farseekers rescue him, making it looked as he had drowned. Meanwhile, Elspeth, in response to the horses’ refusal to be ridden, strikes a bargain with their leader, Gahltha, that the upcoming expedition be treated as a test as to whether they can work as equals. He agrees but only if Elspeth rides him, as both parties should risk leaders. Just before the expedition sets off, a prophecy reveals Jik must join them and they must be back before the pass closes in winter, or Obernewtyn will fall. Disguised as a gypsy troop, they attempt to find a secret pass through the lower mountains, but are taken captive by armsmen of Henry Druid (infamous rebel leader). Inside the well-established camp, their mental abilities are suddenly constrained and the group are separated. After being questioned by Druid about Obernewtyn, Kella and Elspeth are invited to dinner with the men in order to arrange bonding (marriage) of them to some armsmen. The head armsmen, Gilbert, takes a liking to her and speaks at length of his life and the camp. Later, Elspeth finds a secret group of Misfits led by Druid’s secret deaf daughter and learns the block on the abilities is caused by a Misfit baby. Elspeth and Kella intended to be bonded to someone that night but instead the group escape during a large storm. Dominic, who had eluded capture, had built large rafts at Elspeth’s earlier request, on which the group escaped their pursuers into the mountain rapids. Halfway down, they came across a ruined Beforetime city in a large cavern. Suddenly exiting the mountain via a large waterfall, they are nursed back to health by a rebel couple. In return, the group agree to go to Aborium to see if their son, Brydda, is fine. Domick leaves them to travel to Sutrium to set up the safe house. In Aborium, Elspeth asks for him at the specified inn but is taken prisoner instead. Rescued by one of Brydda’s friends, she is taken to see him. Meanwhile Kella, Jik and Pavo are taken captive by the Herders and are being held in the local cloister. Realising Jik is an escaped novice, they intend to send him to Herder Isle (island containing core of order) that night for interrogation. Though she breaks in and frees the other two, she is too late to free Jik. However, with Brydda’s help, they are able to cause enough commotion on the wharf to rescue him. Outside the city, they, with Brydda, travel north to their destination, the ruins containing the library. Deserted as believed haunted, the group eventually realise a wild girl is causing the horrific visions with her mind, and is the Misfit they seek. By coaxing with food, the girl, dubbed ‘Dragon’, eventually follows them back and joins their group. They also take back many books from the Beforetime library. After returning to Brydda’s parents house, Domick rushes in to warn them of the approaching soliderguards, and that Ariel is alive. Fleeing, Brydda reveals the secret pass through the mountains, which the group safely get through only through Jik’s dog’s directions. However on emerging from the other side, a firestorm bears down on them. Though Elspeth is dragged to safety by Daffyd, someone she met many years earlier, Jik perishes in the flames. Elspeth convinces Daffyd to take the others back to Obernewtyn before the pass closes, as the mental barrier blocking the pain in her badly injured feet caused by the Zebrakhen had collapsed. Alone and dying, Elspeth is taken by Guannette birds (Agyllians) to the highest mountain where they teach her body to heal itself. The leader, Atthis, who spoke to her earlier in Maruman’s mind, reminds her of her quest, and the existence of the Destroyer who is destined to try and use the weaponmachines. Haven taken months to heal, Elspeth is return to the wintery highlands where Gahltha awaits her to take her back to Obernewtyn. There Elspeth sees a ruin, destroyed by a firestorm, and a soldierguard camp set up nearby with Rushton and others captive inside. Having presumed her dead, the others are mystified and overjoyed at her arrival, particularly Rushton. They reveal Obernewtyn is fine, and it is just a vision caused by Dragon to fool soldierguards, who eventually flee in fear of catching a deadly disease.