After seeing a newspaper advertisement addressed to children with special abilities, the eleven-year-old orphan Reynie Muldoon goes to a building where he and many other children take a written test with many strange questions relating to logic and bravery. Before that, in front of the building, he helps a queer girl named Rhonda Kazembe, who then offers to give him the test answers. He refuses twice. Only four gifted children pass the tests: George "Sticky" Washington, a boy with a photographic memory who ran away from his family because he believed they only wanted him so he could keep winning awards for fame and wealth; Kate Wetherall, a strong and agile girl with strong physical abilities and an abandoning father; Constance Contraire, a very stubborn small girl; and Reynie. On the third test, they meet and discover that Rhonda was a grown up and not a child. After much introducing, all of them are surprised that all of them had met Rhonda Kazembe and find out that her offer to help them to cheat was part of the test. They are introduced to Mr. Benedict, a genius and the man behind the tests. Mr. Benedict answers their questions and explains to them why he had advertised the tests. The children discover that Mr. Benedict needs a team of children to act as 'spies' for him in a well-known school named Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened (L.I.V.E.). Inside the Institute the children see a multitude of people besides students: the Helpers, who refuse to answer questions about themselves and always seem depressed; the Messengers, talented students with 'special privileges', which Mr. Benedict believes includes sending telepathic messages to brainwash the world's people;the Recruiters, who kidnap and recruit seemingly gifted children for the Institute; the Executives, who are especially talented Messengers who were promoted as assistants of Mr. Curtain; and the Institute's founder, Ledroptha Curtain, who turns out to be Mr. Benedict's twin brother, and a victim of narcolepsy. At the Institute, the lessons are repetitive, seeming to echo the messages that Mr. Benedict and his assistants pick up through a special receiver (the above mentioned telepathic messages). Communicating with Mr. Benedict via Morse Code with a flashlight or sometimes a light switch, the children slowly uncover Curtain's plan: to control the world and imprison his enemies with The Whisperer, the brain-sweeping machine invented by Curtain, was supposed to be turned on full blast by Curtain in order to start his plan. However, it was not fully ready at that point. The children manage to stall Mr. Curtain's plan and use his narcolepsy to knock him out, allowing Mr. Benedict to shut down the Whisperer. Though Mr. Curtain escapes, the children share a party together with Constance, who, it is revealed, is turning three years old. Reynie is adopted by his former tutor; Sticky goes back to his parents, who were searching for him; Kate finds out that her long-lost father was Milligan, Mr. Benedict's bodyguard, and an early victim of the Whisperer; and Constance is adopted by Mr. Benedict and his assistants, Rhonda Kazembe and Number Two.