Oscar Finley and Wally Figg are the bickering partners of a small twenty-plus-year-old law firm in the western part of the South side of Chicago that tries to appear successful although it is really a small-time operation. Generally, the firm focuses on simple divorces and DUI cases, with an occasional automobile accident that provides a boon to the firm. Oscar's character holds the firm together despite the childish junior partner Wally and his questionable ethics. The novel presents Finley & Figg as a law firm so far down the food chain that it advertises on bingo cards. The story depicts the changes that occur when a young formerly successful down-and-out attorney, David Zinc, relegates himself to working as an associate with Finley & Figg (F&F) and an enormous case avails itself. When her boyfriend failed to coerce the firm into service, she paid her divorce fees in kind and became Wally's love interest. He would break up with her much later when it was convenient for him to do so. As part of the routine, Rochelle checks the obituaries to see if any of their estate clients has passed away. One day, Chester Marino's name is listed and Wally makes his way to the proper funeral home. He meets Lyle Marino, the son whose interests F&F were supposed to represent against children from a second marriage. Lyle claims that his father was killed by Krayoxx, whetting Wally's tongue to the case. After finding a few former clients who had valid claims, the firm was able to generate publicity in the Chicago Tribune with a picture of their filing. This induced an avalanche of communications and led them to several additional claimants. At first, the case seems to be a simple opportunity to sign up patients who took the extremely popular cholesterol reduction drug, Krayoxx, which was the number one prescription for obese patients. Krayoxx is produced by Varrick Labs, a $25 billion/year pharmaceutical giant which is dealing with a preponderance of heart attacks by its customers. Wally notices a blossoming class action lawsuit in Florida against Varrick and realizes that if he can find some patients to sign as clients, he can earn a big payday on another firm's coattails. However, some complications make the story interesting. Although none of the three F&F lawyers had previously argued in United States federal court, that is where they find themselves pitted against Zinc's old firm with this case. In fact, David's expertise was in long-term bonds. Once the Finley & Figg claims become prominent, mass tort operators approach them about being part of a mass settlement. Wally flies to Las Vegas to meet with the other mass tort interests, most notably Jerry Alisandros. Varrick flew to Chicago to meet with Nadine Karros, a leading defense attorney. Karros works for Rogan Rothberg. Believing that they can get federal judge Harry Seawright to claim jurisdiction, Karros is chosen for her firms' ties to him and her expertise. The case was soon expedited on Seawright's docket with Finley & Figg's claim singled out of the tort claimants. Eventually, Karros takes action to have Finley & Figg's eight death cases separated. Eventually, Alisandros learns that tests of Krayoxx yield benign results. Oscar and his wife, Paula, are often at odds, and as a large settlement looms, he attempts to divorce her and cash out. After settlement talks break down with Varrick, Alisandros withdraws as co-counsel and Finley & Figg motions to withdraw their claims. Once at Finley & Figg, Zinc stumbles upon a lead poisoning brain damage case involving Burmese immigrants. He expends his own time and resources on their case. He also succeeds in representing immigrants in a labor law case. During the labor case, the employer attempted to have Finley & Figg burned down and the individual who attempted to do so stumbled upon Oscar at the office. Oscar shot him and added an unnecessary debilitating shot that shattered the person's leg. He was sued for excessive force. With Varrick having spent 18 million dollars defending himself and the mass tort bar having vociferously discredited Krayoxx in the mass media, Karros motioned for frivolous lawsuit sanctions pending a withdrawn motion. Additionally, actions were initiated for legal malpractice regarding Wally's letters that promised 2 million dollar settlement followed by motions to dismiss without notifying his clients. After realizing that they could be sued for defense costs and malpractice for withdrawing the case, Finley & Figg withdraw their motions and agree to a jury trial that they believe to be futile. The trial commenced as originally scheduled. During opening statements, Oscar suffered a myocardial infarction. Wally attempted to make light of the situation by proclaiming it an example of Krayoxx effects. Karros moved for mistrial and the motion was granted, leading to the need to seat a new jury. Wally stood in for Oscar as lead attorney while a new jury was seated and for the first day of testimony. The next day, the recovering alcoholic Figg was nowhere to be found although an empty pint bottle of Smirnoff Vodka was. After Wally was AWOL for a second day, David was pressed into service. Rueben Massey, Varrick CEO, instructed Karros not to motion for likely-successful summary judgment. Zinc declined to cross-examine the first handful of expert witnesses that Varrick called, Eventually, Zinc discredited the reputation Varrick's clinical trials during cross-examination of the final expert witness. Nonetheless, the jury rendered a very quick not guilty verdict. Zinc continued to pursue the lead poisoning product liability case. He settled the case for $6.5 million (including $1.5 million in legal fees). He attempted to become equal partners as Finley, Figg & Zinc. The partnership did not work out and was dissolved after twelve months. Zinc opened his own product liability practice, David E. Zinc, Attorney-at-Law. * Oscar Finley, Finley & Figg Senior Partner - A lazy, unhappily married, nearing retirement "fender-benders, slip-and-falls and quickie divorces veteran" and former police officer. * Wally Figg, Finley & Figg Junior Partner - A former DUI convictee and four-time divorcé who trolls funeral parlors and sickrooms for clients. * David Zinc, Finley & Figg Associate attorney - Prototypical Grisham young hot shot Harvard grad lawyer whose life is turned upside down. * Rochelle Gibson, Finley & Figg secretary - Former claimant against Finley & Figg who holds the firm together. * Nadine Karros, Defendant's leading litigator recruited by Varrick. * Harry Seawright, federal judge. * DeeAnna Nuxhall, repeat Finley & Figg divorce customer and eventual love interest of Wally's *Jerry Alisandros, mass tort operator who brings F&F into his firms fold. *Paula Finley, Oscar's wife *Rueben Massey, CEO Varrick.