The story opens with a seemingly random battle among the many superhumans that inhabited the western world, set ten years ago at the foot of a gigantic tank built and driven by Ragnarok that was on its way to New York City. During the course of this slugfest, the superheroes and supervillains all seem to lose their abilities. Ten years later, Brian McDonald has been told by the teacher to assign the class' homework assignment, and he chooses to write about what it would be like to be a superhero. On the way home, Brian's little sister Susie almost gets hit by a bus while riding her bike, but Danny Cooper foresaw it coming and rescued her in the time it took his friend, Colin Wagner, to turn his head twice. At home he ponders over this and comes to the conclusion Danny is a superhero. He confronts his friend about it later and Danny grudgingly reveals his father was Quantum and that he inherited his powers. When Colin gets home he starts to hear things far away, and his mom reveals she and his father were Energy and Titan respectively, two other heroes that were believed to have disappeared. Soon after that a helicopter comes and after a quick chase Colin, his parents, Danny, and Danny's father are captured and taken to America. Around that time a mysterious man known as Joseph gets broken out of a top-secret prison in Nevada by a man known as Victor Cross. In the airport Colin escapes from his captors and, following his fathers tip, searches for a man known as Solomon Cord, who used to be Paragon. He takes refuge in a shelter where, after a brief standoff, befriends the delinquent Razor. Later he and Colin escape by use of a stolen car when the police arrive. Colin refuses to answer Razor's questions and they make their escape to New York. Colin finds Cord but, refusing to believe him, Cord shuts his garage door. Colin rips it off, and Cord remembers a bit of Quantom's prophecy: "He will be strong, that's how you will know." Colin and Razor meet Cord's wife and two daughters, one of which Colin falls for. Around that time Danny and the others arrive at Cross' base, where they are held captive with the newly awakened hero Renata Soliz. Cord takes Colin to the base and they invade it. Soliz and Danny take out most of the guards and Colin get's captured. Danny runs in, seeing Colin being tested on similar to how he was. Cross enters with Joseph, who reveals himself to be Danny's father (Paul Joseph Cooper), the real Quantom, and the other to be Facade stuck looking like Quantom. Danny takes a gun and threatens to shoot. Joseph becomes grave and tells him to put it down. Danny replies there are no bullets inside, and Joseph says that doesn't matter. Danny then slaps him with the butt of his gun. He remembers when he threw a rock at the wall and it seemed to be moving slow but it exploded on the wall as blood spills onto the floor from Joseph's head.