The Commodore's squadron leaves Gibraltar to defend a convoy of East Indiamen from the Moorish xebecs and galleys. Although they are successful, Hugh Pomfret—unable to bear the guilt of having killed so many Christian slaves in the galleys—commits suicide. Aubrey is then instructed to proceed to the Adriatic, stopping off in Mahón along the way. The Surprise encounters Captain Christy-Palliere - Captain of the Royalist Caroline - who informs Jack about the French situation in the Adriatic before sailing onto Mahon. The Surprise and Pomone then sail to Ragusa Vecchia where a newly-refitted French frigate is based under the command of Charles de La Tour, an ardent Buonapartist, and sink it. They then proceed to the Porte di Spalato where they meet another French frigate - Drs Stephen and Jacob are sent aboard and an agreement is reached to fight a mock battle after which the French will accompany the English ships back to Malta. They also lay out a considerable amount of gold to have the new French ships burnt in the dockyards along the coast by disgruntled unpaid dockworkers - e.g. Papadopoulos', Pavelic's, Simon Macchabe's and seven off Durazzo itself (Somers likens the destruction 'to buying one's salmon off a fishmonger's slab than catching it with a well-directed fly'). On reaching Algiers, and after meeting the Consul, Sir Peter Clifford, and his wife, Maturin and Jacob attend an interview with the Dey's Vizier at Kasbah, the Dey's palace. Stephen presents the Vizier with a beautiful blue stone and they are instructed to travel onwards to the Dey, Omar Pasha, at his hunting-lodge at Shatt el Khadna. The Dey invites Stephen to go lion hunting with him and the Dey kills a large lion, Mahmud, and Stephen its lioness, which attempts to kill the Dey. For this deed, Omar Pasha swears that no assistance will be given to the Muslim plot. Jacob then discovers the Vizier's message to the Sheikh of Azgar, Ibn Hazm, to have the gold carried by a fast-sailing xebec from Arzila (just SW of Tangiers), captained by an Algerian corsair via the Strait of Gibraltar straight to Durazzo. On their return to Algiers, the Doctors learn that Omar Pasha has been assassinated by the Vizier, who privately admires Buonaparte. The doctors are taken aboard the Ringle, along with two Irish children - Kevin and Mona Fitzpatrick - whom Stephen buys from a slaver, and join Aubrey back in Port Mahon. They then proceed to Gibraltar to update Lord Barmouth on the situation, encountering Hamadryad and Heneage Dundas along the way. Aubrey is disliked by the new Commander-in-Chief for having discreetly turned away his son on an earlier commission, and Jack feels his plan may be given to another frigate. However, Barmouth's politico, Matthew Arden, is highly influential in Whitehall and a close friend of Lord Keith and Maturin assures Jack he will not be ill-used. Jack is also a cousin of Barmouth's new young wife, Isobel Carrington, and the Admiral's attitude becomes more friendly once she makes him aware of this. Dr Jacob finds out the corsair has hired two galleys to act as decoys - one on the African side and one mid-channel - whilst he lies under Tarifa before running through the Straits. The Surprise lies in wait in the Straits and, on spotting the xebec, gives chase. Murad Reis, its captain, fires on the frigate and destroys the second gun of her starboard broadside, killing Bonden, its captain and Hallam, a midshipman. After a long pursuit, the galley finally holes up at Cranc (Crab) island but finally surrenders after McLeod, a crags man from St Kilda, climbs a steep cliff and a nine-pounder gun is hauled up. The corsair's men of war, seeing the situation is hopeless, behead Murad and surrender, along with several English prisoners. After returning victorious to Gibraltar, there is some dispute over the prize money but Ali Bey is deposed and the new Dey, Hassan, renounces his claim to the gold (given that the Surprise was fired on first) in return for the xebec and a £250,000 loan to consolidate his position in Algiers. The Commander-in-Chief, on the advice of Lord Keith, gives his assent and the Algerine delegation is given a handsome send-off. The end of the book coincides with Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo, and thus the effective end of the Napoleonic wars. Aubrey and Maturin set sail for Chile in the Surprise to try and undermine the Spanish colonial rule there - a continuation of the theme of The Wine-Dark Sea.