The books opens with Marco and Tobias in bird morph, surveying a freight train transporting tanks into the city. They are spotted and attacked by Controllers in bird of prey morph, revealing that the Yeerks now have the ability to morph after obtaining the Escafil device in the previous book. Marco and Tobias escape by stealing a tank, which they use to demolish Chapman's house before fleeing. Back in the Hork-Bajir valley, the Animorphs speculate that the Yeerks are planning to infest the state's National Guard en masse. A personal issue is also presented in the form of Jake's depression, which affects the morale of the group. Jake decides to send Marco, Tobias and Ax to the state capitol to warn the governor of the Yeerk plot, while he, Cassie, Rachel and the Auxiliary Animorphs attempt to slow the Yeerks down with the usual assault tactics. Marco's team infiltrates The Gardens to acquire mallard ducks for the long distance flight to the capitol. Here they are again attacked by Controllers with the morphing ability, but manage to escape. They arrive at the capitol and locate the governor in cockroach morph, eventually demorphing and revealing themselves to her when she is alone (except for her husband and bodyguards). Unfortunately, her husband is a Controller, and alerts the Yeerks. Marco, Tobias, and Ax grab the governor and race through the streets of the capitol while being pursued by the Yeerks. After destroying a helicopter and a yacht, they lose their pursuers and return to the governor's mansion to explain the situation to her. The governor is accepting of the danger, and calls in a group of National Guardsmen who have been doing training missions in the desert for the last few weeks, and can therefore be assumed to be uninfested. Unfortunately an infested company arrives first with the intention of kidnapping the governor. Marco deceives them by morphing the governor, letting himself be captured by the Yeerks, and being rescued by Tobias and Ax (meanwhile, the real governor escapes). Marco, Tobias and Ax return to the Hork-Bajir valley in time to see the governor issue a televised warning about the Yeerk invasion. The Absolute begins the series' final story arc, or the "countdown" books; as such, it is the first to feature the new back cover text. Crucial plot developments include the Controllers - the series' main antagonists - now being able to morph, and the Yeerk invasion's being revealed to the public. Marco uses a Dracon beam to shoot down a Controller's helicopter, which is possibly the first instance of any Animorph deliberately taking a human life (even a Yeerk host body).