The novel is set at the turn of the 19th century. After Heather Simmons, a penniless orphan, kills a man named William Court who was attempting to rape her, she flees the scene. Near the London dockside, she is accosted by two men who mistake her for a prostitute and escorted onto a ship. Heather believes she has been arrested for murder. Unaware of the misconceptions on both sides, the captain of the ship, Brandon Birmingham, has sexual intercourse with her. The following morning he discovers the truth and offers to make Heather his mistress. She declines. The encounter left Heather pregnant, and a magistrate forces Brandon to marry her. Neither is pleased with their new situation. Over the next few months, as they prepare for and undertake a voyage to Brandon's home in Charleston, South Carolina, their feelings for each other begin to soften. Once in the United States, Heather is plagued by Louisa Wells, Brandon's jealous former betrothed, who attempts to drive a wedge between the couple. Other jealous girls, including Sybil Scott, also try to cause problems between Heather and Brandon. Heather and Brandon continue to misunderstand each other's motives, leading to much tension between them. Heather eventually gives birth to a healthy son, Beau. Several months later, Heather and Brandon resolve their differences, profess their love to each other, and share a bed for the first time as husband and wife. The following morning, Sybil Scott is found murdered. Although Brandon is accused of the crime, Heather is able to provide him an alibi. Soon after, Heather is blackmailed by Thomas Hint, the former assistant to William Court. He threatens to tell the authorities that Heather had killed Court. Hint also informs Louisa that Brandon had discovered Heather on the streets. Louisa believes that Heather was a prostitute, and confronts Brandon and promises to forgive him for his dalliance if Brandon will send Heather back to London and allow Louisa to take her place as wife and mother of Beau. Brandon threatens Louisa and sends her away. When she is found dead the following morning, Brandon is arrested. Heather confronts Hint, who confesses to killing both women and then tries to rape her. She is saved by her husband, who had been released from jail. During the ensuing confrontation, Brandon is shot in the arm. Hint escapes, but the skittish horse he chose bucked him to the ground. A tree limb collapsed on him, killing him immediately. The charges against Brandon are dropped, and he and Heather live happily ever after.