John and Philippa Gaunt lead an upper class life in New York City, New York. Their life changes when their Wisdom Teeth(also called Dragon Teeth by Djinns) appear after their Uncle Nimrod appears to them in a dream. He tells them that they are Djinns, and that their mother is trying to take away their powers. Suddenly John's acne disappears, and they both have a sudden desire for the heat, as well as hitting a growth spurt,and granting their housekeeper a wish. After some debate, the children are sent to spend the summer with their Uncle Nimrod. On the plane, they accidentally make two people disappear Their uncle begins to train them on how to use their powers. They meet a French named Coeur de Lapin, a woman who is the wife of the ambassador. Nimrod, John and Philippa are trying to discover where the 'Seventy Lost Djinn of (Akhenaten)' are hidden, which leads to the capture and binding of Nimrod, a murder of a man called Hussein Hussaout and a confrontation of Iblis, the leader of the most wicked tribe of djinn, the Ifrit. This could tip the balance in the ongoing fight between djinn who attempt to promote good luck, of which Nimrod is the nominal leader, and those who promote bad luck. After several adventures in Cairo, Egypt the book concludes with a battle in the British Museum between them and a ghost king, cobra, crocodile, and baboon. However, while ensuring that the Djinn will not be controlled by bad Djinn to tip the balance of luck in the universe towards more bad luck, Nimrod gets confined in the same jar as Akhenaten himself, who turns out to be a bad Djinn. In order to release Nimrod from the bottle without releasing Akhenaten, they go to the North Pole, because the cold causes the Djinn to become very weak and tired. The cold temperature slows down Nimrod and Akhenaten, so John and Philippa go inside the lamp. They make themselves spacesuits to wear in the cold so that they would stay warm and not get weakened themselves. They have to bring Nimrod out quickly so that Akhenaten, who is warming up (due to a polar bear sniffing through the lamp), does not escape. But eventually they save Nimrod and go back to London. When they later go back home to New York City, it turns out their mom really knows more about what the twins were doing than they thought.