Melanie "Mel" Stryder is one of the surviving rebel humans left after the invasion of the "Souls", parasitic aliens which take over human bodies, erasing the original occupants. Wanderer is a Soul who has lived on eight other planets previously, Mel being her ninth body host. She was inserted under emergency conditions, with the intent of using her to access any information Melanie might have about other free humans like Mel's brother and boyfriend. This investigation is headed by an individual identified only as "The Seeker", who pressures Wanderer to produce information, and views her with implied contempt for her failure to do so. Melanie remains partially conscious despite her infestation, an aberration for which Wanderer feels some shame, and no small amount of concern. She bombards Wanderer with her memories and emotions, and Wanderer develops emotional connections of her own to both Melanie's former lover and her brother. When enough information arises for her to find them, rather than report it to the Seeker, Wanderer sets out on her own to find them, nearly dying in the desert before Melanie's uncle, Jeb, finds her. He brings her into his hideout, a complex of caves containing more than two dozen free humans who survive by scavenging from distant cities. Jeb is unwilling to kill her because her host body is a relative, so she remains in the caves, where she has to deal with the antagonism and distrust of most of the group, including Jared, Mel's boyfriend. She eventually develops feelings for several of the humans, in particular Ian O'Shea who becomes a constant protector and friend. Her help and support with a dying member of the group makes the others view her more sympathetically. Only a few humans maintain their dislike of her, notably Ian's brother Kyle, who makes at least one attempt of her life, for which he is threatened with expulsion from the group. Wanderer's peaceful life with the group is disturbed by the realization that the humans have not given up on reclaiming those the Souls have enslaved; by experimenting with ways of removing Souls from their hosts, both always die in the process. Severely traumatized upon discovering the remains of extracted souls, she enters a period of mourning, withdrawing from the group. She is only roused by news that Jamie is injured and has developed a serious infection. She and Jared sneaking out of the complex together to seek medicine at a Soul-run hospital, using Wanderer's credibility as a Soul to gain access. After this, she becomes a regular participant in scavenging missions. When the Seeker is captured for getting too close to the caves, Wanderer finally reveals the method of detaching a Soul without killing the host. This allows them to rescue several friends and family members taken by the Souls, including Kyle's girlfriend. She reveals the technique to the group's medic, on the condition that he not harm the Souls after they are removed, and that she also be removed from Melanie and be buried. The latter condition proves controversial, especially with Ian, who forcibly takes her to his cave where he confesses his love for her. However Wanderer, undeterred, sneaks away after he falls asleep to complete her plan. She is removed, but awakens in the body of a girl who had not had a chance to develop a personality, since the Soul "Pet" was inserted during her childhood. Kyle's girlfriend turns out to have been utterly destroyed in the insertion, and he develops a relationship with the Soul in her body instead. Wanderer's association with the humans continues. In the final scene this is revealed to not be a unique situation, when they meet another group with a human-sympathizing Soul. The ending is a setup for a second book, although one is not yet in the works (2012).