The protagonist, a sixth grader named Adam, has recently moved with his family to Buffalo, New York from San Francisco, California. Adam attends St. Luke's, an expensive private school which he can only afford by virtue of the scholarship he receives as a consequence of his parents both working for the school. Thus, Adam finds himself the only lower-middle class student at an academy full of children of the wealthy. This disparity is often on his mind as he socializes with his friends, and it serves as the catalyst for the book's central plot and title. Adding insult to injury (at least in Adam's mind) is the fact that he cannot earn any extra money because he must babysit his two year old sister, Allison, a task which his parents feel is a family duty and not an opportunity for income. Adam spends his free time with Jesse and Tracey, with whom he plays chess as well as Dungeons & Dragons. Adam, usually the winner of chess matches with his friends, realizes that he losing more often than he once did. He attributes this new development to the handheld chess computers that his friends now use for practice. Adam knows that his family cannot afford a chess computer, but he begins to covet the device. Without funds, though, all he can do is wish. Lying in bed one night, he begins to toy with the idea of stealing a $400 talking chess computer from an electronics store in the local mall at which he occasionally shops. He approaches the scheme at first in the same fashion as he would create a Dungeons & Dragons game. As the plot becomes more complicated, and in his mind, daring, he dwells upon whether he should actually execute it. He does. Adam takes his sister to the mall on the day he puts his plan into action. Pushing her in her stroller through the aisles of the electronics store, he quickly pilfers a clock radio while no one is watching. He leaves the store without incident. It is no ordinary clock radio, however, at least by 1983 standards. Rather than waking a sleeper with the radio or an alarm pulse, this particular model will play an audio cassette at the designated time of alarm. This is central to his plan, which includes returning the clock radio to the store after setting it to play a prerecorded message the next day. He spends his remaining time at the mall asking passers-by to read one word each into a portable tape recorder he has borrowed from his father. In total, the message reads: "Beware, you will be hurt if you do not do as I say. Go to the bathroom and lock the door." After recording this message, he places the tape into the clock radio and then returns to the electronics store. He explains to Vanessa, the sales clerk, that his sister inadvertently placed the clock radio in the stroller and he did not notice it at the time. Vanessa is overjoyed, as she had feared that the missing clock radio would be deducted from her paycheck. Adam now believes that he is the last person that anyone would suspect of being a thief, as he returned an item when he could have simply kept it. The next day, he returns to the mall moments before the message is set to be played on the clock radio. At the designated time, he enters the store and takes the chess machine. He makes his escape and is not caught. He plays with the talking chess machine but he is quickly overcome with guilt. He confesses to the theft after his friend Tracey finds the chess machine (which Adam had hid in a Monopoly board game box. He later reveals his transgression to Jesse, and ultimately, to his parents (who punish him, but not heavily, as they recognize that their son is racked with guilt). He returns the machine to the electronic store and earns the wrath of Vanessa, who bans him from the store and accuses him of creepy behavior. She does not call the police.