The book is divided into 16 sections *The Cosmos: Gods, Demons and Things - Discusses the known gods on the Discworld and their relationships with the gods of Earth. *Dwarfs - Explores the customs of the dwarfs and the similarities between dwarf culture and mining cultures on Earth; also certain Earthly religious cultures. *Elves - Considers the elven race and what is known about them both on Earth and the Disc. *The Nac Mac Feegle - Discusses the Feegle and their 'Pictsies' equivalents on Earth. *Trolls - Documents the customs and thoughts of the silicon based lifeform and our beliefs regarding them on Earth. *Other Significant Races - Covers a variety of other races including Vampires and Igors and their equivalents on Earth. *Beasties - Dragons, chimeras, the sphinx, etc, including the Luggage. *The Witches of Lancre - Explores similarities and contrasts between the Lancre witches and the Wise Women and witches of Britain and Ireland. *The Land of Lancre - The landscape legends, customs and beliefs in lancre set alongside their counterparts on earth (mainly British). *The Witches of the Chalk - Compares material in the Tiffany trilogy with beliefs and customs of Earth. *The Chalk - Explores the similar customs and way of life between Tiffany's home and the sheep-rearing areas of Southern England in past generations. *Heroes! - Deals with the parallels of Mazda/Prometheus, Carrot as the Lost Heir, and Cohen in relation to Alexander the Great, Tamurlaine, the aged Ulysses, and heroic defiance. *Lore, Legends and Truth - Concentrates on 'folklore' as recalled by inhabitants of Ankh-Morpork; includes sections on rat-charming, sinking islands, and wizardry. *More Customs, Nautical Lore and Military Matters - More urban traditions, also ghost ships and female soldiers. *Kids Stuff... You know, about 'Orrid Murder and Blood - Children's lore (e.g. Frighteners, and the Tooth Fairy); comparison of the Hogfather with father Christmas/Santa Claus. *Death - Well, death, obviously.