Karigan G’Ladheon, a member of the King’s Green Rider messenger service, finds her life increasingly tangled in the third book of the Green Rider series. King Zachary, for whom Karigan has feelings, has admitted his feeling for Karigan but is being forced into a political marriage with Lady Estora of Coutre. This causes difficulties for all three as Karigan and Zachary cannot be together and Karigan is now jealous of Estora and ceases to show friendship to her former friend. Soon Karigan is sent on several messenger errands as Captain Mapstone attempts to separate her from King Zachary. Accompanied by rider-in-training Fergal Duff, she delivers several messages, the last one a decoy message presented to her old school nemesis, now lord-governor Timas Mirwell, in an attempt to contact Rider Beryl Spencer. Meanwhile, Riders Alton D’yer and Dale Littlepage’s attempts to mend the wall at the Blackveil Forest are met with failure, and the wall’s strength continues to wane. “Grandmother,” the leader of the Second Empire, plans to overthrow Sacoridia and return the Empire by using her magic and a book that must be read at the tomb of the Sacoridian High King which reveals the history of the D’Yer Wall, which protects the kingdom from the Blackveil Forest, and thereby how to destroy it. After delivering her messages, Karigan discovers Lady Estora, who had been kidnapped by men working with Second Empire. She offers herself as a distraction, changing clothes with Estora, to allow the King’s betrothed to escape safely and return to Sacor City. Karigan is captured but escapes with the aid of Lord Xandis Amberhill. Knowing the Grandmother’s plot, Karigan travels back to Sacor City to try to stop it. When she arrives, Karigan joins a band of Weapons, guards highly committed to guarding the King and the dead royalty, who enter the tombs to stop the Second Empire from reading the book. She successfully recovers the book, and it is revealed that she is an avatar of the god Westrion. In the aftermath of these events, Karigan is knighted by King Zachary and Alton succeeds in partially healing the wall with the help of the mages. Second Empire continues to plot as Grandmother and the Second Empire journey into the Blackveil hoping to "awake the sleepers". The author has confirmed that there are more books to come. The fourth book in the series, "Blackveil," was released in February 2011.