The story takes place over 7 days in May 1140. At the midnight services of Matins on a lovely May night, a boy speeds into the Abbey church just ahead of mob after him for theft and murder. The boy's name is Liliwin. He is a wandering jongleur and entertainer, most recently thrown out of a local goldsmith's wedding reception for breaking a wine jug during his routine. Abbot Radulfus, in his calm but forceful way, stops the mob, grants the victim's request for sanctuary and successfully orders the mob to return in quiet the next morning to discuss their charges. The next day, a sergeant under the absent Sheriff Prestcote visits the abbey to hear the charges against Liliwin. The boy is now accused of assault and robbery, the victim Walter Aurifaber being alive but unconscious since the attack. The boy's term of sanctuary will expire in forty days; if he leaves the grounds he will be taken – if lucky by the Sheriff's men, if not by the townspeople. Abbot Radulfus firmly asserts the rights of sanctuary for Lilliwin, who protests his innocence. The grandson of the Aurifaber house then requests Bother Cadfael to treat his grandmother at their home. Radulfus directs him to do so. Cadfael treats Dame Juliana, allowing him to interview several people in the house where the crime happened. He retrieves the juggling balls that Liliwin left behind. Dame Juliana is a greedy and controlling woman, a trait that affects the entire household. At the Abbey, Cadfael tells Liliwin that Walter the goldsmith will recover and be able to recount his experience. Cadfael takes his relief as a sign of Liliwin's innocence, expressing as much to Deputy Sheriff Hugh Beringar, returned from other duties in Shropshire. Liliwin's only tears fall for the loss of his rebec, which Cadfael finds on a walk back to the Abbey. When Liliwin hears that Rannilt has sympathy for him, he expresses sentiment for her also. Brother Anselm teaches him to read and write music, then adapts Liliwin's tunes for church music, and works to restore the rebec to condition. A weekend in the Abbey sees Liliwin begin to recover from his wounds in a true sanctuary. The routine is broken on Monday when Rannilt visits Liliwin with food from Susanna, and discarded men's clothing from Margery. The two fall deeply in love, then make love and fall asleep behind the chapel altar during Vespers. Liliwin's absence is noted; it is thought and hoped by Brother Prior that the young jongleur has abandoned his sanctuary. Liliwin and Rannilt wake at Compline having slept too long. Rannilt leaves unnoticed, escorted home by Liliwin, the pair walking past the guards on duty to watch for him. He risks his sanctuary for her safety. Prior Robert is most disappointed to see him the next morning. Liliwin saw Daniel leave the Aurifarber home that evening, which he reports to Brother Cadfael after Prime. That same night, Cadfael comes upon the body of Baldwin Peche the locksmith at the river's edge, the same person sought by Madog of the Dead-boat. Madog and Cadfael find clues of where his body was put in the river. They suspect Baldwin was killed at the time Liliwin was missed by Brother Prior. The townspeople accuse Liliwin of this crime immediately. Liliwin lies to Hugh Beringar, who saves him from the crowd. Later Liliwin confesses his real guilt to Cadfael. Daniel is a suspect in this murder, Margery realizes when Beringar interviews her and she lies to him. Margery realizes also that her new husband is seeing other women. She establishes her power with him and stops his wanderings, while removing the suspicion of murder from his head. Daniel's paramour has scorned him, upon being asked to say he was with her. Together Daniel and Margery confess the truth of Daniel's whereabouts the night of the murder to Hugh Beringar. At the goldsmith's house, Margery and sister-in-law Susanna fight for dominance. Susanna was not allowed a dowry by her father; she is the housekeeper for her father, brother and grandmother over 15 years. Margery wins, as decided by Dame Juliana to be effective the next morning, while Cadfael was present. Susanna puts her housekeeping accounts in order. Her grandmother hears her late in the evening at this task, and comes out to talk with her, giving a compliment on her granddaughter's management of the stores of oatmeal, which Rannilt overhears. Dame Juliana suffers a stroke in the stress of a sad realization. Her dying words to Cadfael are that she wishes she could have held her great-grandchild. The following evening Susanna quietly leaves for Wales with Iestyn and Rannilt. At a second meeting with Madog of the Dead-boat on the river, he and Cadfael find the place of Baldwin Peche's murder, where the Aurifaber property meets the Severn. Three plants grow there, found on his body. Further clues of rocks and a coin there point to the murderer, and the thief. Cadfael, Beringar and Liliwin realise that while Susanna could not have attacked Walter the goldsmith in his shop and stolen his wealth, an accomplice could have done so. Then Susanna could then have retrieved the treasure that was stolen from the well bucket and hidden it in that oatmeal bin. When Baldwin's servant boy found a coin in the well bucket, Baldwin deduced who held the stolen silver. Baldwin attempted to blackmail Susanna, a distinct mistake. She killed him by hitting him with a rock from behind and drowning him when he was unconscious, in the morning. She hid the body near the river where the laundry was dried, then gave Rannilt the day off so the body would not be seen where it fell. Cadfael deduces that Susanna is pregnant and wanted the money to elope to Wales with her lover, Iestyn, apprentice in her father's shop. They realize that Dame Juliana had figured all this out before she died, yet sought no outside help to resolve the problems in her family. Liliwin secures his freedom from Hugh Beringar, it being clear Liliwin had no role in these crimes. With Walter as a guide, Beringar, Cadfael, Liliwin and the sheriff's men pursue Susanna, Iestyn and Rannilt, who has been abducted as a witness. They corner the fugitives in the Aurifaber horse barn near the road to Wales and a hostage situation develops. Iestyn negotiates with Beringar for safe passage for Susanna, in exchange for release of Rannilt. Walter objects loudly to any bargain that risks his money, caring naught for his daughter. Beringar is patient. Liliwin the acrobat climbs to the air vent, quietly peels away the lattice wood and enters the hay loft in search of Rannilt. As dawn breaks, Rannilt slips toward the exit as Iestyn goes for Liliwin with a knife. At the same moment, Susanna runs to Iestyn and takes the arrow meant for him. Hugh Beringar climbs to the loft to take Iestyn from his dead lover. Walter runs about gathering his coins, spread across the ground by the sorrowing Iestyn. In the epilogue, Liliwin and Rannilt marry at the Abbey, and are compensated by the townsfolk for the hardship they experienced. Brother Anselm gave Liliwin his rebec, fully repaired. After the ceremony, Liliwin asks the fate of Ietsyn. Beringar will argue in his favor, as Ietsyn did not murder, what he stole is returned, and he acted at his lover's behest. Beringar sees a future for him. Liliwin and Rannilt set out on their new life.