The plot of the novel is based around the discovery within Roman ruins of a new gospel written by Jesus' younger brother, James in the first century. In the gospel, many facts of Jesus' life, including the years not mentioned in the Bible, are revealed not to be as factual as they were once thought to be. Steven Randall, a divorced public relations executive running his own company in New York City, is the man hired by New Testament International, an alliance of American and European Bible publishers, to give publicity to James' Gospel as published by them. The project has been top-secret for six years, and now it is about to be unveiled to a world long in need of Christian revival. However, as Steven gets more involved in the project he runs into several questionable circumstances, as radical clerics centered in Central Europe oppose the publication of the document, since it would give ammunition for the conservative churches to keep the flow of worship from the top to the bottom, instead of bringing the faith to the masses. A struggle for control of the World Council of Churches, the suspicious absence in the project of archeologist Prof. Agusto Monti, the original discoverer &ndash; and whose daughter Angela is a potential love interest for Steve &ndash; , and the potential notion that the newly discovered gospel itself is a forgery made in the 20th century instead of a legitimate historical document, all are guaranteed to make Steve question the worth of the new job he's undertaking, and the newly re-found faith in God he acquired along with it. *New York City, Steve's place of work and regular abode. *Oak City, Wisconsin, Steve's hometown (fictional; may be based on Oak Creek and/or Pleasant Prairie). *London, England, where Steve meets Dr. Bernard Jeffries and Dr. Florian Knight *Amsterdam, Netherlands, headquarters of the New Testament International project, and of Maertin de Vroome's Westerkerk. *Paris, France, home of Henri Aubert's lab at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique *Mainz, Germany home of Karl Hennig's printing press *Simonopetra Monastery, Mount Athos, Greece *Rome, Italy, base of the Monti family, and its former Roman seaport Ostia Antica, place of the discovery of the Gospel According to James *Milan, Italy, where Steve first meets Angela