The story begins in the voice of the Jewess Mariamne as a child living a privileged life in her widowed father Josephus’ home in Jerusalem. Also living with them is her father’s ward, Salome, an Egyptian, the daughter of a deceased fellow merchant. Both girls are overseen by a body servant named Tata. Mariamne has only just recovered from a life-threatening illness during which it seems she might have experienced altered states of consciousness. When she revives, she is gifted (or cursed) with unexpected voiced divination. Raised like sisters and indulged by a fond father with books and lessons usually only accorded boys, Mariamne and Salome possess a thirst for knowledge, both secular and magical, that is forbidden to females. Through their devoted personal slave, they also learn worldly experience far beyond anything Josephus, a member of the elite Jewish Sanhedrin, would approve of them knowing. When Mariamne unwittingly exposes her gift of prophesy in front of her father and his houseguest, a merchant named Ananias, Josephus immediately sends Mariamne to her room, but Ananias is intrigued. That moment of exposure changes not only the life of Mariamne, but the lives of all involved. Within months, Josephus, misunderstanding an exchange he sees between Salome and his houseguest, banishes Salome and the houseguest from his home, and then, only hours later, Tata and Mariamne. His daughter is to go into her uncle’s strict Jewish household, where there are no books. Unable to bear the loss of Salome and then of her books, Mariamne takes her life into her own hands, as well as that of her slave Tata. She follows Salome into true banishment. Mariamne is only eleven years old, Salome is twelve. With Mariamne's choice, her quest begins. For both protection and ease of travel, Mariamne and Salome are disguised as boys, not unusual for the times, especially for girls who sought learning. Dressed as males, they are given male names. Salome is Simon. Mariamne is John. As John and Simon, they are taken by Ananias and his friends to the “Wilderness,” a hidden settlement on the northwest edge of the Dead Sea. Here they meet a man who will become Mariamne's mentor, the young philosopher Seth of Damascus, also a seeker of divine knowledge. They also meet John the Baptist, hiding with other zealots in the wilds of the Judean deserts. In the "Wilderness," they see a world they could not have imagined in the home of a rich Jew of the Law: the complex struggle for Jewish freedom from Rome, and the even more complex struggle for the Temple where Roman-backed priests practice rites of animal sacrifice that enrage zealots. They also see there is no one brand of zealotry, but many, and none agree with the others, though all await a Messiah to lead them. Salome comes quickly to believe John the Baptist is that Messiah in the form of an actual King of the Jews. Mariamne does not agree. Thus begins the rift between Mariamne and Salome, one that only grows wider when Mariamne meets John's cousin, a Galilean called Yeshua. In time it seems wise to send the young prophets away from the hotbed that is Roman-occupied Israel. With Seth, they travel to Alexandria, Egypt where Mariamne and Salome live in the Great Library, becoming learned in mathematics, philosophy, poetry, and, under the tutelage of Philo of Alexandria, the Egyptian mysteries, specifically the ancient Passion of the man-god Osiris. After seven years, Mariamne reluctantly returns to the Wilderness, but Salome is eager to go back in order to see John of the River again. Having lived as males, they remain males. Through John of the River, Mariamne (now called John the Less) meets his cousin, Yeshua of Galilee and his twin brother, Jude the Sicarii. Immediately sensing they are somehow important to each other, John the Less shares with Yeshua the knowledge she learned during her studies in Egypt. Deeply confused and disturbed by the violent actions of all those around him, and their expectations of a “King” prophesied to save them, Yeshua retreats deeper in the true wilderness of the Dead Sea region to undergo his own revelation, returning to share it with his increasingly beloved friend, John the Less. Mariamne, who had undergone her own experience of gnosis years earlier as a child close to death, would keep such knowledge to herself, but Yeshua is filled with a messianic fervor to have all others know what he “knows” and what his beloved companion knows - that all are divine, and no one needs "saving" if only they would awaken from the sleep of illusion. Aware of where such enthusiasm might lead (it has led John of the River to a terrible death at the hands of Herod Antipas and Salome/Simon to an even more terrible survival), still Mariamne (now John the Beloved Disciple) follows Yeshua as he teaches and heals, spreading his message of love and forgiveness to his followers, whose numbers continue to grow as his reputation as Messiah grows. Eventually, Yeshua’s resolute conviction leads him to the cross, and Mariamne to a cave in what is now the south of France, but was then called the Gallia Narbonensis by its Roman conquerors, where, dying, she tells her story to Seth of Damascus, her lifelong friend, who writes it all down for her.