Emily Fletcher, Adriane Charday, and Kara Davies, three very different girls-turned-mages (mages are "magic users"), band together to protect and find Avalon, the source of all magic. Each girl has a bonded animal and magic stone; their animal friends help them on their magical journeys through the different worlds along the Magic Web. The safety of the Magic Web, and the worlds it connects, hinges on their success as they battle two main antagonists, the Dark Sorceress and the Spider Witch, who wish to harness the magic of Avalon and distort the Web for their own evil ends. The titular Web of Magic is a web on the magical plane of existence, connecting all worlds with each other through portals. ;Circles in the Stream: Emily, Adriane, and Kara are all drawn to a secret place deep in the woods. It is much harder than it would because Kara will not cooperate! There they discover a portal to another world through which strange and wondrous animals have emerged, searching desperately for the magic that will keep them alive. The animals are peaceful and good, but what follows them through the portal is pure evil. The girls have been chosen by magical beings called Fairimentals to protect the magical animals, though they don't know why. To save them and their world, the three girls must begin a quest to find the lost home of legendary magic, Avalon, or to perish trying. ;All That Glitters: Emily and Adriane have one thing that Kara doesn't&mdash;a magic gem. But when Kara finally finds a magic stone of her own&mdash;a diamond unicorn horn&mdash;it brings more trouble than anyone can handle. Pesky dragonflies start showing up everywhere and new Fairimentals warn of danger. While trying to use the jewel to make her hair stop growing uncontrollably, her hair turns rainbow (See the front of All that Glitters) Worse, a band of terrifying monsters stalk Kara. That and signs of a sorceress keep appearing before Kara! All these creatures come from another world. And all want something from her. Finding out may take Kara, Emily, and Adriane a step closer to Avalon, the source of all magic. But it may also cost one of them her life. ;Cry of the Wolf: Adriane and Stormbringer, the mistwolf, have a unique bond. But is it strong enough to save them when Storm is lured through the portal to Aldenmor, the another world much like Earth where magic still thrives? Adriane thinks it is, and follows Storm to the magical world. There, Adriane faces the challenge of her life as she confronts Moonshadow, the pack leader and the entire mistwolf pack and tries to bring Storm home. The strange boy she meets, Zach, may be able to help her, but she'll need Emily and Kara's magic to survive this battle. ;The Secret of the Unicorn: Aldenmor's problems are worsening. Many new creatures are arriving in Ravenswood through the portal and they report that the Fairy Glen, home of the fairimentals, has vanished. A frightened and wounded unicorn is among the new refugees to Ravenswood. Can Emily communicate with her to offer help? The future of the Magic Web depends upon the dark secret the unicorn carries. All the while, a new terror, a harpy, stalks Emily as she tries to find out about the injured creature. ;Spellsinger: The first benefit concert for the Ravenswood Wildlife Preserve is on and everyone is depending on the event to ensure the Preserve's survival. Kara has booked hottie pop idol Johnny Conrad. But Conrad may be hiding a dangerous secret that threatens the animals, Ravenswood, and the girls themselves. This time, the magic is in the music, and if Emily, Adriane, and Kara can't perform, their chance to find Avalon may be gone forever. ;Trial by Fire: The road to Avalon is about to be revealed. The path is on the fairy map, a sparkling globe of wondrous power. Kara holds the fairy map in her hands, and must use it for the good of all worlds and all animals. But evil stalks Kara. The Dark Sorceress is after the map, too. If she finds Avalon first, people and animals from all worlds are doomed. The time has come for Emily, Adriane and Kara to be the healer, the warrior and the blazing star they were meant to be. They must win this battle&mdash;even if it means sacrificing a beloved friend. ;Song of the Unicorns: Emily's dad wants her to vacation with him and his new wife&mdash;Emily's new step mom&mdash;at a horse ranch in New Mexico. Emily convinces her two friends to accompany her. But along the Magic Web, a dangerous magic tracker is hunting down unicorns, the one magical creature that can control the flow of magic. In the desert, the mages discover an entire herd of baby unicorns. Emily, Adriane, Kara, Ozzie, Dreamer, and Lyra must find a way to hide them and fight the dark hunter. ;All's Fairy in Love and War: Kara can't control her magic. So she goes back to doing what she does best—being pretty and popular, and performing in the school play. The other mages, Emily and Adriane, continue without her. But the magic has other plans for Kara, the Blazing Star. Whisked into the Fairy Realms through a magic mirror, Kara falls smack into the middle of an impending war, and meets a mysterious boy with a dark secret. Kara may be the only one who can restore peace between the Fairies and the Goblins, but she must first tame her unstable powers, her wild heart, and a stallion made of fire. If she fails, it could mean the destruction of the Fairy Realms, the unraveling of the Magic Web... and the end of Avalon. ;Ghost Wolf: Adriane, the Warrior, knows what it's like to lose a friend. And now she's on the verge of losing everything she loves. The Spider Witch and the Dark Sorceress will stop at nothing to capture the power crystals of Avalon. This time, they've launched an attack directly at Ravenswood, the sanctuary for magical animals and Adriane's home. The fight to save Ravenswood will take Adriane to places she never imagined, into the very heart of mistwolf magic where a friend she thought she lost forever lives on. Is Adriane brave enough to walk the ghostly spirit path? She'll have to rise to a whole new level of magic in order to save her friends, her pack-mates, and Avalon itself, or risk losing everything... again. ;The Heart of Avalon: A mysterious sickness threatens the sea dragons of Aldenmor. But Emily the healer can't find a cure unless she can bond with one special animal and advance to a Level Two mage like her friends. A strange, shape-shifting creature whisks her away and Emily meets perilous monsters, salty sea elves, and a hidden treasure hold the secrets to evolving her healing magic and finding the path to Avalon. To save the animals, Emily must face her deepest fears, and discover the truth about her uniquely powerful mage powers and abilities... but she won't be alone. ;Dark Mage: In the heart of the magic, darkness is growing. Time is running out as Emily, Kara, and Adriane must retrieve the last remaining power crystals to open the Gates of Avalon and save the Magic Web. No one told the girls the real secret of the Prophecy&mdash;like their enemies, the Spider Witch and the Dark Sorceress, one mage is destined to bond with dark magic. In their most dangerous adventure yet, each mage will be called upon to face her darkest fears. Their friendship is pushed to the limit&mdash;and one will become the Dark Mage, while one is sacrificed. ;Full Circle: Emily, Adriane, and Kara became mages, but failed to discover the secrets of Avalon and save their animal friends. Now, the Gates of Avalon are locked, beloved friends are doomed, and the Dark Sorceress reigns supreme. There may be one final chance to fulfill their destiny. The mages must put everything they love on the line&mdash;and be prepared to sacrifice all as the final battle for Avalon begins.