The Lab is an action book, whose protagonist is a 16 year old superhuman, named Agent "Six of Hearts". Six was created to be the ultimate soldier by a group called The Lab which is a ruthless division of the company ChaoSonic. In this futuristic setting there is only one known city left in the world, and it is run by ChaoSonic. ChaoSonic took over the city and has obliterated all their competitors and enemies. Six is an agent of a vigilante organization called "The Deck" which survives by attacking ChaoSonic subsidiaries that are acting unethically, arresting the people involved and then selling off their assets. Only the King of Hearts, who saved Six from the Lab as a child, and is now his boss, is aware of the fact that Six is a superhuman developed by ChaoSonic. Six and King keeps this a secret, as the Spades, another division of the Deck, would imprison Six if they knew he was a ChaoSonic creation, in case he was a threat. Six is the best agent in the Deck, having a 100% mission success rate. The Deck then begins to investigate "The Lab" and King gives Six the assignment to stop anyone from discovering his true identity. On his mission he meets Kyntak. Kyntak is genetically identical to Six, designed in the Lab's 'Project Falcon' alongside him. In a twisted way, they are brothers. This discovery prompts Six to re-ex When he arrives, he discovers that Lab soldiers have invaded the Deck and captured the agents. Six sets off on a mission to infiltrate the Lab and rescue the agents. The agents manage to get out, but Six is killed in the attempt. However, the Lab brings Six back to life, using parts from a clone of him to repair his body. Their leader, Methryn Crexe, then offer Six a job working for them, as they believe he has the perfect personality for a soldier, which theyamine his own sense of humanity. Kyntak is locked up when he and Six arrive at the Deck, but is soon released on the orders of one of the Jokers, the shadowy leaders of the Deck. One of the Jokers is Grysat, who usually poses as the Deck's receptionist, but the identity of the other Joker is unknown, and he is the Joker that released Kyntak. Six and King are worried that the Joker and Kyntak might be working for ChaoSonic, but they keep quiet in case the Spades find out the truth about Six when investigating Kyntak. The Deck then spies on a meeting between the Lab and a potential customer, but one of the guards recognizes Six. Six chases the man, but he escapes, using superhuman abilities. Six returns to the Deck with his first ever mission failure. want to replicate with the next soldiers they grow. They then plan to use those soldiers to crush all resistance in the city. Six refuses the offer, and tries to escape, but is almost killed. Kyntak then arrives and rescues him. Before they leave, they find a new baby superhuman, a girl, which they take with them.