The Animorphs discover that Hewlett Aldershot the Third has been run over by Controllers and is being kept secretly in a hospital where he is heavily guarded. He has a very high job in the government. Since he cannot be infested while in a coma, Visser Three acquires his DNA in hopes of impersonating him to eventually acquire an even more senior official. They decide to morph mosquitoes with the theory that they can acquire him by sucking his blood without being in their natural forms where the Yeerk guards might notice them. While they are doing it, they are transported to Z-Space when their extra mass is caught in the slipstream of an Andalite ship heading for the Leera where there is a Yeerk invasion underway. Right before they suffocate, they are rescued and taken aboard. Once in the ship, Ax "betrays" the Animorphs by following the captain's orders. The group is told to stay calmly in a room while the Andalites do all the work. Unfortunately, the commander of the ship is a traitor. He attacks all the tripulation in the bridge but Ax. However he can do nothing to defeat him. That's when Ax alerts the Animorphs but they reveal to Ax that they are already in the room. Cassie distracts the captain and Ax defeats him. As the ship is about to be taken by the Yeerks, the second in command tells them to leave the ship and he blows it up. The Animorphs head across the major landmass of Leera to try to find friendly Andalites. Tobias mysteriously disappears and the rest go over to the ocean following Ax's idea- who promised that now on he will only take Jake's orders-. Rachel disappears and the rest meet some Leerans whom they acquire. Then they get told that the Andalites have planted a bomb to explode the continent- as Ax had suspected- but that they need to go to activate it and Cassie disappears. Marco disappears and they meet a Leeran-Controller who reads their minds and discovers their plans, alerting the Yeerks. When they get to the bomb, Jake disappears leaving Ax alone. He activates the bomb but a bunch of armed Hork-Bajir appear to disarm it. The Hork-Bajir fires at him but he disappears right before the beam hits him. The bomb goes off right after he disappears. Somehow all the Animorphs arrived back to the hospital where they were before they got sucked into Z-Space. in that precise moment the person in coma awakes and tries to kill Ax-mosquito. So the Animorphs no longer need to morph him. Once in the mall Ax explains that as they were sucked to the Z-Space all together, they obviously had to return all together.