The story is told by various members of the Garde: Number Four (John Smith), who is on the run with Sam, Six, and Bernie Kosar (aka Hadley, a Lorien Chimæra), and Number Seven (Marina), who's hiding at Santa Teresa, a convent in Spain. While John, Number Six and Sam try to stay ahead of the Mogadorians while searching for the other surviving Loric, Number Seven searches for news of John after his heroic battle at the school that came at the end of I Am Number Four. Marina is introduced in the story right from the start. She lives in a religious community for children in need. Along with her is Adelina and a few friends she has at the school in Santa Teresa, Spain. Marina greatly dislikes the school. After failing to adapt to life on Earth and blend in, Number Seven, Marina, and her Cêpan, Adelina, went to the Santa Teresa convent/orphanage and had been living there for 10 years. Adelina has given up hope of Lorien rising and has tried to adapt to life as a nun. She has hidden Seven's Chest and has all but ignored her. Annoyed by Adelina's attitude, Marina has been searching for the now legendary Number Four in order to unite the Garde, but so far, without any success. At the beginning of the book she is five months away from her eighteenth birthday, when she will be able to leave the orphanage. When a seven-year-old named Ella is brought in Marina instantly becomes good friends with her. Ella helps her find her Chest and Marina drugs Adelina to open it. When she does, they are tracked down by the Mogadorians and barely escape. Adelina finally acknowledges her wrongs and sacrifices herself to save Marina. Marina meets a man named Crayton who explains that Ella is Number Ten, and who is also an Aeternus, having the ability to change her age to that of an age she has already lived. They meet with Six and kill their pursuers. Héctor, a human who is friends with Marina and knows about Lorien, dies in the process. The group of Marina (Seven), Six, Ella, and Crayton resolve to find the other numbers so they can band together. John wakes up in the motel that he arrived in at the end of I Am Number Four with Six and Sam. They attempt to remain unnoticed (as Four is in the FBI Ten Most Wanted List) and replace their license plate with another driver's before driving through Tennessee. In Tennessee, they are pulled over by a policeman who asks them why they are driving with a license plate that belongs to another vehicle. The officer then realizes who they are, and calls in additional help. Six uses her legacy of controlling the elements to create gale force winds that allow them to escape. Four, Six, and Sam head to Florida, where they all begin training. Four speculates that Sam has a crush on Six. At first Sam denies it, but eventually admits that he does. Four knows he has a crush on Six too, but tries to push those feelings away because he wants to love Sarah. Six convinces Four to open his chest. While going through the items in the chest, Four shows Sam the Solar System item. Because Seven touches her transmitter (unaware of what it is), the Solar System morphs into Earth with Santa Teresa displayed by a red dot. Seven is heard screaming at Adelina. Four opens his letter from Henri in private, and learns that not only are the nine Garde members actually going to be the next nine elders, but that Sam may be correct about his father's alien abduction, and that his father was assigned to Four and Henri to teach them Earth's ways. Four shows Sam the letter and Sam begins to cry upon learning about his father's fate. Later that night, Four and Six are both suffering from sleep insomnia and decide to take a walk. Six uses her invisibility legacy to help them remain unseen. They almost share a kiss, but Four pulls away because he refuses to think he has feelings for anyone other than Sarah. When they return home, their house explodes after the Mogadorians learn their location because of Four opening his chest. Sam saves some items and hides in the pool, but a short battle with the Mogadorians ensues where the Mogadorians are defeated, but not before taking Four's chest. Sam, thinking that his father left something for them in Paradise, forces the group to return. They retrieve a stone tablet and some papers, but are unable to decipher their meaning. Four secretly meets up with Sarah. Upon their reunion, they hug and kiss. Sarah briefly checks her phone and John asks who she is texting so late at night. She tells him it's Emily, and they go back to their conversation. Sarah repeatedly tries to persuade Four to turn himself in, but he refuses each time. The FBI shows up and takes Four and Sam as prisoners. Six helps them escape, and Four realizes that Sarah was actually texting the police and not Emily. The group decides to split up after Four and Sam decide that they want to go retrieve Four's chest in West Virginia, Sam only because he hopes to find his father, while Six decides to go to Spain to rescue Seven. When Four and Sam drop Six off at the airport, she kisses Sam on the cheek to say goodbye which makes him blush. Four and Six share a passionate kiss on the lips to say goodbye. Four tells Six that Sam has a crush on her, to which she says that she has a crush on him too. Four, confused, tells her that she thought she liked him, to which she says that since Four loves her and Sarah, it's only fair that she can love Sam and Four. She gives them an address to which they are supposed to rendezvous in two weeks and she departs. Sam puts the address in his pocket, and they head off for West Virginia. Six arrives at Santa Teresa to assist in her battle with Seven, and helps her defeat the Mogadorians. She finds out that a second ship left after the one that carried the other Lorics to Earth, and carried another member of the Garde, Ella, or Number Ten. Six, Seven, Ten, and Crayton, Ten's substitute cêpan, head out to find other members of the Garde. Once at the end of the road in West Virginia, Sam and Four follow a map left by Six until they reach the Mogadorian cave. Four uses a Xlitharis to transfer Six's invisibility legacy to himself, although he will only have the legacy for one hour. Right when the legacy expires, they receive the chest along with another chest (that is later revealed to belong to Nine). Four uses fire to defeat many Mogadorians, and the main power goes out which allows Four and Sam to rescue Nine. Sam is determined to find his father, who he thinks is among the prisoners, and Four and Nine have no other choice but to leave him there after a force field separates them. Four realizes that the rendezvous point address is with Sam, but Nine tells him not to worry and that if the rendezvous is meant to occur, then it will. Four tells him to head north, and they begin driving.