During a visit to Europe, Simon Templar (alias "The Saint") befriends a rich American whose son was recently murdered in New York City; the culprit went free due to police and courtroom corruption. Templar is given an offer he can't refuse: $1 million if he goes to New York and deals out his unique brand of justice to evildoers in that city. The book begins with the New York Police Department receiving a letter of warning from Scotland Yard Chief Inspector Claud Eustace Teal, indicating that Templar, after being inactive for six months (presumably since the events of The Saint Goes On), has relocated to the United States. The letter is accompanied by a dossier on Templar's career thus far (Charteris proceeds to give new readers a brief summary of past adventures dating back to the first Saint novel, 1928's Meet - The Tiger!). When an accused cop-killer is found shot to death, the NYPD knows the Saint has arrived in New York. After Templar rescues a child who has been kidnapped by a mob boss (assassinating the gangster in the process), the whole city learns that the Saint is on the job. Templar's ultimate goal is to discover the identity of the city's main kingpin who is known only as "The Big Fellow". Templar is abducted by one of the remaining crime lords and two corrupt, high-ranking New York City officials offer him $200,000 to reveal who is backing him. Templar claims to be working on his own, and the crime lord orders Templar to be taken for the proverbial "ride". Templar is taken to a remote location in New Jersey but manages to escape his fate thanks to the intervention of Fay Edwards, a beautiful young woman who happens to be a cold-blooded killer, and who claims to be working for The Big Fellow. Simon Templar and Fay Edwards fall in love with each other, in a completely Platonic way (they exchange only two kisses and exchange only a few words) which seems nevertheless very deep and poignantly emotional. (On his return to London, in the last page of the book, Templar would refuse to tell Patricia Holm about his American experiences.) The Saint eventually learns that he is being manipulated into killing off certain crime bosses in order that The Big Fellow will not have to split a $17 million cache of blood money that was going to be shared among the gangsters. In effect, rather than being a daring and idealistic vigilante, as he thought of himself, Templar finds that he had been made into a gangland hit man - and very much dislikes to see himself in such a role. And when the Big Fellow's identity is finally revealed, he ends up being the last person Templar would suspect. *The book gives the first detailed physical description of Templar, indicating that he is 31, six foot two, 175&nbsp;lbs, and has a bullet wound in his left shoulder. *Templar's dossier contains some continuity errors. The novel appears to take place in 1934, yet the dossier indicates that Meet - The Tiger! takes place five years earlier, or in 1929, yet the earlier novel takes place in 1928 meaning Templar has actually been active for six years at this point. Similarly, Templar should be 32 or 33 by the time of this novel, not 31 as he is clearly described as being 27 years of age in Meet - The Tiger!. However, in an introduction written for a 1963 reprint of the novel by Fiction Publishing Corp., Charteris suggests the book actually takes place in 1933, which sets the chronology correct (although it calls into question where in the Templar literary chronology this adventure takes place). *If Charteris' above claim that the book takes place in 1933 is correct, then the events of the novel must take place during December of that year, as several references are made to the 21st Amendment (passed in December 1933) which repealed Prohibition. *The book features a thuggish policeman named Kestry. Charteris had originally created Kestry as the central figure of "The Man Who Liked Toys", a short story he had written for The American Magazine. Charteris later rewrote the story as a Simon Templar adventure (it was published in Boodle) and for most readers, this was their first introduction to Kestry. *Burl Barer, in his history of The Saint identifies The Saint in New York as the most violent of all Saint stories, and notes that it marks the dividing line between the British-influenced stories dating back to 1928, and the more American-influenced adventures that would follow over the remainder of the series. *The Saint in New York would be followed in later years by a series of The Saint in...-themed novels, novellas and short story collections featuring Templar's adventures as he travels around the world. Examples include The Saint in Miami, The Saint Goes West, and The Saint in Europe. *Years later, in a French Saint novel, The Saint Battles a Phantom, Templar would refer to the aftermath of one of the characters in this story. http://www.lofficier.com/saint3.html