In the first section, Lady Rohana Ardais, a Comyn woman of young middle-age - nobility by birth and possessing the psychic powers of laran, or telepathy in Rohana's case - travels with a band of Renunciates to the city Shainsa to free her kinswoman Melora who had been kidnapped ten years before. Rohana chooses to cut her hair and travel with the women as a Renunciate, into the desert heart of the Dry Towns where women are literally kept in chains by the men who own them. While the women manage to free the heavily pregnant Melora and her twelve year old daughter Jaelle, born in Shainsa to her kidnapper-husband, Melora dies giving birth to her son Valentine in the desert, leaving Jaelle in the care of her childhood friend Rohana. The young Jaelle chooses to stay with the Renunciate Kindra, rather than be fostered by Rohana, and the section ends with the child's request: "Foster-mother, will you cut my hair?" and we are left with the very clear impression that Rohana's experiences with the Renunciates and in the Dry Towns have profoundly changed her self-perception as a woman, and of the relationship between the sexes. In the second section of Shattered Chain, twelve years later the Terran agent Magda Lorne assumes Renunciate garb and haircut under the direction of Rohana, now nearing the end of middle-age. Just as Rohana's journey to rescue Melora was prompted by her male kin's refusal to jeopardise the Domans' political relationship with the Dry Towns by rescuing a woman, Magda is travelling into the Hellers to ransom her kidnapped ex-husband Peter, whom her employers and people - the Terrans - have refused to rescue, again for political reasons. Magda, however, travels alone, yet coincidentally - or fatefully - comes across a band of real Renunciates led by the now-adult Jaelle, who has chosen the life of the Renunciate, forgoing the privilege, power and cloistered life of a comyn lady. Magda's deceit is uncovered, and the traditional punishment for a woman who takes the guise of a Renunciate without taking their oath - to make the lie truth - is meted out to Magda by Jaelle and her Renunciate sisters. Magda chooses to travel with Jaelle alone to the Nevarsin Guild House to begin training as a Renunciate, though she plans secretly to escape her responsibility and continue on to rescue Peter. Shortly after the other Renunciates part ways with them, Magda and Jaelle are attacked by bandits and Jaelle is seriously injured. Magda must choose whether to abandon Jaelle and hold true to her responsibility to her ex-husband, or to uphold her oath to the Renunciates and to the injured Jaelle. Magda chooses to do both, taking Jaelle with her into the mountains, rescuing Peter, and then travelling with both to the Ardais estate. Magda's conflict and eventual decision to abide by her oath to Jaelle and to the Renunciates echoes Rohana's earlier inner conflict in choosing whether to leave her life for the Renunciates or to continue in her life as comyn nobility. Whereas Rohana chooses to continue as a noblewoman, yet takes advantages of her high social position as head of a domain, taking her ill husband's place in the comyn council and running her estate and domain, Magda eventually chooses to pursue the life of a Renunciate. In the third and final section of the book, Jaelle, Magda and Peter shelter the winter at the mountain estate of Ardais, home to Rohana, her husband and children, including the aggressive and intimidating Kyril Ardais, for whom the bandits originally mistook Peter when kidnapping him. In this section, Jaelle chooses to become freemate to Peter, and questions both her choice to become a Renunciate at a young age, and her decision to ignore her developing laran. By the end of this section, the two women and Peter return to Thendara, where Jaelle is forced to face her responsibility as an heir to a comyn domain with powerful and untrained laran, and Magda must choose whether she honours her oath to the Renunciates and to her now-dear friend Jaelle or returns to the Terran zone to continue her work as translator and agent. By the end of the novel, Jaelle has chosen to live with Peter as freemates in the Terran zone in Thendara, fulfilling Magda's role as translator and honouring her responsibility to her employers. Magda has chosen to seek out her Renunciate training at the Thendara Guildhouse, to remain cloistered in a house-bound year where she must learn what it means to renounce the traditional place of a woman in Darkovan society.