Robert "Bobby" Pendragon, an everyday athletic junior high school student from Stony Brook, Connecticut discovers that he is a Traveler: someone who is able to use mystical flumes to journey among ten distinct spacetime realities, called "territories." His Uncle Press, the lead Traveler, tells him that they have a crucial mission: to stop the efforts of the shapeshifting demon Saint Dane, a supporter of the darker side of human nature who believes that everything there is or was, collectively called Halla, must be destroyed so that he may rebuild it, according to his own designs. As each territory reaches a critical turning point, Saint Dane arrives, hoping to lead its people toward self-destruction. Bobby travels to the ten territories to thwart Saint Dane's plans, sending journals to his home (Second Earth) to be received by his best friends Mark Dimond and Courtney Chetwynde, who become sometimes involved with the action and are deemed Bobby's "acolytes." There is one Traveler from each territory and Bobby soon realizes that his role is to replace his uncle as the lead Traveler, pursuing Saint Dane across Halla, and helping to guide the territories back toward stability with the assistance of the other Travelers, their acolytes, and further allies. The turning points of the territories, in order, occur on Denduron, Cloral, First Earth, Veelox, Eelong, Zadaa, Quillan, Ibara, Second Earth, and Third Earth. Not only does Bobby come up against the forces of Saint Dane, but he also learns the skills of martial arts and how to respect the diverse peoples of the territories he encounters, which wildly differ in their social structures, technologies, philosophies, traditions, and other cultural aspects. He also has to adapt to each territory's environments to get to Saint Dane. As the saga progresses, Bobby begins to learn the nature of what it really means to be a Traveler, that Saint Dane's ultimate goal includes a mysterious event called "the Convergence," and how different he actually is from a normal American teenager. By the ninth book, Bobby successfully prevents the destruction of six territories, but on Second Earth, Veelox, and Quillan the Travelers fail, allowing Saint Dane to claim victory. Even worse, by taking over Second Earth, Saint Dane manages to reverse all previous Traveler victories, founding an elitist, genocidal cult called Ravinia that marches its robot army of humanoid soldiers freely throughout the territories. In the last book, Bobby and the Travelers learn that they are not actually humans, but rather, spirits created by Solara, the source of all accumulated human knowledge. Reuniting one last time, they manage to defeat Saint Dane in a final battle on Third Earth, thus reviving Halla and beginning its process toward recovery.