Sapphire and Conor have been called to make the dangerous Crossing of Ingo, a journey to the bottom of the world, and it has been prophesied that if they complete it then Ingo and Air will start to heal. They have their Mer friends, Faro and Elvira, to help them, but their old enemy, Ervys, is determined to make sure they don't succeed. They have many adventures going around the world and Sapphire finds new abilities. ------------------ Sapphire, Conor and their Mer friends Faro and Elvira are ready to make the Crossing of Ingo- the most dangerous journey young Mer have to face. No human has ever been chosen to made the Crossing, and the future of Air and Ingo depends on their success. But Ervys, his followers and new recruits, the sharks are determined that Sapphire and Conor must be stopped - dead or alive.... The book starts out with Faro seeing Saldowr and Ervys blow the conch and start the Call. Then the book goes to Sapphire's house. Her mum and her boyfriend Roger are in Australia leaving Connor and Sapphire alone. They have moved back to their old house, but Rainbow and her stepbrother visit often. One day Sapphy and Connor hear the Call. They both realize that they must answer it. But then, a few days later, Connor notices seagulls nesting on their house. Later, Connor goes up on the roof and comes down with a fish egg. He wants to feed it to a neighbors cat, but Sapphire wants to throw it back in the ocean. A few days later, Sadie is attacked by the gulls. Connor and Sapphire take her to the vet's office. Then, Granny Carne, who knows the children must answer the Call, takes Sadie to her house. When Saphire and Connor go to their cove, they realize they can't go through. Saphire sees Faro, but she wonders why he is not helping them. After they swim free, Faro tells them that Ervys has made their home into a Porth Cas, making it extremely difficult for them to get through. However, they all go to the assembly chamber to answer the Call. They are all chosen with Elvira. They go outside the Chamber and leave right away. A shark sees them and injures Sapph, but dolphins save the day. The children leave the dolphins and head north instead of south. -Summary Unfinished-