As an acting prequel to the Elemental Masters series, this book details the past of Alderscroft, the powerful leader of the wizardry world in England, and his rise to power within magical society. Alderscroft is present in all the Elemental books that take place in England in varying degrees due to his role as the head of the Exeter Club/Magic Circle. This novel also introduces the concept of Talents or the Talented, which are likened to psychic abilities. As described in the book, some people will only have very small amounts of power while others will be able to gain full mastery of their abilities. The most powerful have equal standing with Elemental Magicians. By training their powers, very powerful Talents can manifest a psychic avatar and become a Warrior of Light. Avatars' appearance is based on historical and mythological imagery. Some Talented are able to acquire a familiar, an intelligent animal that shares a psychic link to them. Isabelle and Frederick Harton run a school for Talented children and children whose parents live abroad. An unusual household of Indian servants aids them. During the beginning of the novel, they acquire two new students, Sarah Jane Lyon-White and Nan Killian; both children show signs of Talent. The danger begins when Sarah begins to develop powers as a medium; she and Nan are lured into a trap set up by an Elemental Magician. Isabelle is forced to reconnect with her Elemental Magician friends; she is reluctant to do so due to her romantic past with the leader of the Elemental Masters, Lord David Alderscroft. Lord Alderscroft is in danger as well, as his mentor Lady Cordelia has aligned herself to an Ice Elemental and has plans to take David’s body to secure her goal to create an icy empire. To secure her goal, Cordelia has convinced David that he should distance himself from people and teaches him the power of Ice. The result has David looking down at his peers and isolating himself in the belief he is doing 'right'. The Hartons take the school to the countryside to better protect Sarah from any more attacks. Sarah, Nan and Isabelle encounter Puck, who warns them of impending danger. A chance encounter with David, leads Isabelle to realise that David is connected with this danger. As Cordelia is about to spring her trap on David, she in confronted by Puck, the Hartons and company. With their help, David is able to break Cordelia’s hold on him. Enraged, the Ice Elemental takes Cordelia as punishment for her failure. The novel ends with David becoming the patron for the school and starting to repair the gaps in his life.