The story opens on 18 October 1142 with the news that Richard Ludel, lord of Eaton manor, has died of his wounds taken at the battle of Lincoln in February 1141. A servant carries the news to Sheriff Hugh Beringar, who has charge of the manor lands for King Stephen. Hugh shares the news with Abbot Radulfus, who is guardian of the son. Brother Paul informs young Richard, 10 years old, that he is orphaned, and lord of Eaton manor. Richard has been educated at the Abbey since age 5 when his mother died. It is suspected that his father made the charter with the Abbot to keep his son away from his grandmother, Dame Dionisia Ludel. She does not believe in such education for a lord. Her goal is to marry the boy to Hiltrude, daughter of Fulke Astley, who will inherit the estates on either side of Eaton manor: Wroxeter and Leighton. That he is too young, their ages 12 years apart, have no bearing on her decision, aimed at increasing family lands and her own power. Her request that Abbot Radulfus send the boy back to her is refused. While the boy is educated, the steward John of Longwood will continue to run the estates well. Hugh Beringar has power from his role as King Stephen's man, overlord in the King's absence. He decides it is best that the boy's inheritance be assured. The former overlord of the estate, William Fitz Alan fled to France, as a supporter of the Empress Maud when King Stephen took Shrewsbury and Fitz Alan's estates. Fitz Alan is rumoured back in England, no need to stir up old loyalties. Two strangers enter the area in October, the holy hermit Cuthred and his helper boy. The hermit is given a disused hermit's chapel with adjacent room by Dame Dionisia for his residence. The helper sets to making a garden, as the local folks rapidly accept the hermit in their midst. He and his helper were present at the funeral of Richard's father, when three brothers of the Abbey escorted the son, returning him in time for Vespers. Otherwise, Cuthred never leaves his small residence, his doors always open. The rest of the story takes place over a few days in November 1142. Eilmund, forester for the Abbey, reports unusual damage in the Eyton Forest. The river bed was undermined, deer and sheep from Eaton manor damaged young plants, including new ash trees. Neither Eilmund nor John of Longwood can find how the animals escaped. This forest is owned by the Abbey. The hermit's boy reports to the Abbot at Chapter two day's later Cuthred's view of the odd events in Eyton forest: they are happening in punishment for the young Lord Richard not being allowed back home to live at his manor. The helper introduces himself as Hyacinth. He is a young man with reddish brown hair, the colour of copper beeches. Leaving the Abbey, Hyacinth is approached by Richard, who wants a friend to tell him the true news about his own lands. They form a pact as friends. En route to the hermitage, Hyacinth hears a man in pain in Eyton Forest. He immediately helps by rolling a fallen willow tree off Eilmund. He finds local men to carry Eilmund to his own assart, where his daughter Annet is doing her chores. As Eilmund is carried on a litter, Hyacinth runs ahead to warn the daughter of what she will see. Seeing her father's state, she asks Hyacinth to go back to the Abbey, asking for Brother Cadfael to set her father's broken leg. Radulfus sends Brother Cadfael on horseback to tend their forester, Hyacinth keeping pace on foot. Before Cadfael left for the forest, Hugh Beringar shared the latest news in the conflict between King Stephen and the Empress Maud. She is held under siege in Oxford Castle. Her best ally, Robert of Gloucester is back from France, at Wareham, hoping to lure King Stephen from the siege. The Empress sent a messenger from Oxford Castle to Brian Fitzcount, Lord of Wallingford, her strongest ally after Robert. The messenger's horse was found, with empty saddlebags, but no sign of the messenger Renaud Bourchier—thought brave by Cadfael to venture out of a siege to deliver jewels to Wallingford where money was needed to pay the men. Returning to the Abbey from Eilmund's, Cadfael meets its newest guests, Drogo Bosiet and his groom Warin, of Northamptonshire. Warin tells Cadfael that his lord is hunting a man, a villein named Brand, who had fled after attacking the steward. Drogo's son is also hunting; the two plan to meet at the Abbey. Drogo seeks the help of the Abbey at the next day's Chapter meeting. Abbot Radulfus is not well inclined to this man's goal, so recommends him to contact the sheriff for aid in his pursuit, after a precisely true response that no one of that description stayed in the Abbey. After Vespers, Brother Jerome, ever righteous, meets privately with Drogo to tell him that the hermit's helper bears some resemblance to the villein Brand. Jerome's meeting is not as private as he hopes, as young Richard overhears their conversation and the threat to his friend Hyacinth. Richard immediately rides his pony to warn Hyacinth before Drogo can set out for the hermitage in search of him. Richard finds Hyacinth with Annet in the Eyton Forest. Hyacinth appreciates the warning. In the twilight, Richard heads back to the Abbey while Hyacinth avoids the hermitage. That same day, Brother Cadfael rides to check his patient. He waits to leave Eilmund until Annet returns from her evening duties, rather longer than usual. Riding on a moonlit night, Cadfael encounters Drogo's horse with no rider, then the body of Drogo Bosiet, killed by a knife in his back. Cadfael takes the horse with him to the Abbey, informs the sheriff by notes, and the Abbot in person before Matins. In the light of morning, Hugh Baringar and Cadfael inspect the corpse and the scene. It is clear that Drogo was stabbed in the back as he walked his horse on the forest path in a densely wooded section en route to the Abbey. No knife is found. Only the roll tied to the saddle had been stolen, using the knife. A fine ring on Drogo's hand remains, suggesting thievery was not the motive for the murder. They ride back to consult the Abbot, as Cadfael tells Hugh what he knows about Drogo and the villein he sought, moved by a "vigorous hate". The Abbot gathered two useful facts to aid the investigation. Brother Jerome reports his conversation with Drogo Bosiet, revealing Bosiet's likely destination, and why he rode without his groom. The groom was sent to town to seek a fine leather worker, the trade at which the villein excelled. Hugh visits the hermit, with Cadfael. Cuthred confirms that the Abbey's guest had visited him the day before. Hugh and Cadfael carefully observe the interior of the hermitage, Cuthred's cell. Cuthred says Hyacinth has not been at the hut since the day before when he sent him on an errand, but is now suspicious of him, alarmed at this murder. Cuthred tells how he met Hyacinth, a beggar at the gates of the Cluniac priory in Northampton, in the end days of September. The mysteries are set for solving: one murder, one missing helper, and the damage in the Eyton Forest. Hugh Beringar sets up a manhunt for Hyacinth, though unconvinced of his guilt. Upon second return to the Abbey in one day, Cadfael learns of another mystery, the whereabouts of young Richard. He has not been seen in the Abbey since the day before at Vespers. It is clear to Cadfael that Richard overheard Jerome's conversation, then vanishes from the Abbey. Cadfael fears for the boy, whose grandmother is not above taking him from the forest. Hugh Beringar and his men search for both the school boy Richard and the suspected murderer Hyacinth. A new guest arrives at the Abbey as the brothers search the Abbey unsuccessfully for Richard. Rafe of Coventry, of the Earl of Warwick, is a falconer. Cadfael is stabling his horse at the same time as Rafe, so they talk briefly. Rafe notices the horse whose owner lies in the mortuary chapel, then looks at the face of the dead man, a stranger to him. In the next two days, all the mysteries are resolved. In Hugh's manhunt, he returns to Cuthred the next day seeking the boy Richard. He has not been there. Most think that Hyacinth has run to Wales, where Hugh's writ does not run. Hugh suspects that Dame Dionisia is hiding her grandson, but does not uncover him in the search, not at Eaton manor, nor at Wroxeter, the closer of Astley's two manors. Cadfael brings crutches to Eilmund, fast healing. He waited out of sight on first leaving, to follow Annet as she meets the much-sought Hyacinth. Annet, Eilmund and Hyacinth bring Cadfael in on their secrets. Annet loves Hyacinth and her father knows all about it. Eilmund likes and is grateful to Hyacinth for saving him in the forest, so hides him during the manhunt. Hyacinth confesses that Dame Dionisia set him to the task of making trouble for the Abbey until Richard was returned to her. Though Hyacinth did not push the willow tree onto Eilmund, he feels responsible for that, which does not shake Eilmund's views. Cadfael is unhappy that he cannot tell Hugh what he knows, as these three cannot trust the Sheriff as Cadfael does. Hyacinth was with Annet at the time of the murder. Innocence is not sufficient; he is not safe until the manhunt is stopped. Hyacinth describes his bad treatment at Drogo's hands, even as he became so skilled at fine leather work. Bosiet distrained Hyacinth's father's lands shortly before he died, leaving the orphan Hyacinth more bound to the lord for survival. Hyacinth ran because he beat up the steward when he chanced on him raping a local girl. Hyacinth knew that Bosiet valued the steward over the girl, and would savour the chance to bear down harder on him. Next day, Drogo's son Aymer arrives at the Abbey with his groom, learning of his father's murder. Harsh like his father, he is not much saddened. His focus is on finding the villein, his property. Cadfael is eager for Aymer to give up his greedy chase, take his father home for proper burial. Then Cadfael can resolve the conflict of the two promises he made, informing Hugh of what is known by those living in Eyton forest. Cadfael encounters Rafe putting coins in the alms box. One is a coin struck with the image of the Empress. Rafe admits to coming from Oxford. Cadfael asks, are you come to find the murderer of Bourchier? Rafe says no, but I wish it were that. Hyacinth seeks Richard in the evening when the manhunt is in abeyance. Reasoning that the greatest threat to Richard was his grandmother, he seeks the manor of the intended bride, Leighton, the one further out and last to be searched. Hearing a young woman travelling with her father on horseback in the darkness, he knows he is right. He finds Richard locked in a room, but cannot free him, only speak through a shutter. Instead, they hatch a plan for him to agree to the marriage ceremony, at which the hermit Cuthred will act as the priest. Hyacinth whispers a secret to Richard that persuades him to follow the plan that evening. The morning after the marriage ceremony, Richard talks with Hiltrude. She tells him how she wants to marry someone else, a second son whose hope of land is only a promise. Richard has no interest in marriage at all, at age 10. Gaining respect for Hiltrude, he shares the secret that led him to agree to the ceremony. She is delighted. The two make a plan so Richard can escape on his pony for a daring ride to the Abbey. Richard begins his ride in daylight, after dinner (the midday meal). All goes well until a groom notices the grazing pony missing. He notifies Astley, who is aware of the missing Richard hours before their plan anticipated. He wants the boy to sign some papers, so is angry and in immediate pursuit. Astley chases after Richard, knowing he will head for the Abbey. They arrive dramatically in the Abbey courtyard, Richard first on his pony followed less than five yards by Astley on his large grey, both animals overworked and almost foaming. Richard falls off the pony and grabs the Abbot's legs, making clear where he wants to be. The courtyard was full, as Vespers had just ended. The lord Astley and Abbot Radulfus face off. Astley says, I want my son in law. The Abbot coolly, forcefully, and without insult, takes control of the conversation with Astley, also asking Richard questions. Richard's honour is tested, as he will answer the Abbot truthfully, yet cannot implicate anyone who helped him in good faith. He does his best, relying on the Abbot's holding the same code of honour. The questions allow Richard no opening to reveal the main reason he did stand up in the marriage ceremony; in frustration, he shouts that Cuthred is not a priest, in front of a rapt audience. Rafe, among the crowd, hears this and slips away. Brother Paul steps up to take Richard, as the Abbot puts off all other issues with the boy to another time. There is one way to learn if Richard is right about the hermit, ask the hermit to tell if he is also a priest. Abbot Radulfus plans a meeting with Cuthred after Prime the next morning, inviting Sir Fulke Astley to join him. Hugh Beringar enters the scene now, seeing the confrontation of the two men, and defiant yet frightened Richard. Just returned from Leighton, on a wild goose chase searching for Richard, he is not kindly inclined to Astley. The topic of charges for kidnapping is now raised, muting Astley after his voluble and honest surprise at Richard's charge against the hermit. Aymer Bosiet has not yet left the Abbey, still a threat to Hyacinth. Next morning, all meet at the unexpectedly silent hermitage. The Abbot enters first, into the small room, calling for Cuthred to no avail. Hugh passes him into the chapel, to see Cuthred lying dead at the foot of the altar, his own knife near his hand. How to make sense of this scene, everything orderly except the sprawled body? A casket (small box) is broken open and empty. Hugh and Cadfael quietly notice the absence of the breviary. Some blood shows on the tip of Cuthred's knife, and two places are noted on his clothing where a knife had been wiped clean of blood, by one who takes care of his weapons. Dame Dionisia arrives. She is struck by the sight of the dead man, realising how death can come at any moment, even to her, with all her sins upon her. Brother Cadfael looks once more in the chapel, inspecting for blood spots. Some were on new wood, at his height. Cadfael rides to the Abbey with the group carrying the hermit's body. Aymer Bosiet is leaving with his father's casket. Aymer looks at the corpse of the hermit, and recognizes the face. He and his father had met this man at Thame, one night at the end of September. He was dressed differently, hair cut in the Norman style, a man who wore weapons. They played dice and chess with him. Thus is explained the murder of Drogo, by circumstance at least. The hermit could not risk discovery by a chance acquaintance. Cadfael asks Aymer, what kind of horse was he riding back then? No horse, very odd. Aymer and group leave the Abbey. Time to bring Hyacinth out in view, Cadfael decides, to resolve the questions of the hermit being a priest or not and Hyacinth's role in the recent events. First, he and Hugh speak in the herbarium. Cadfael tells him that Hyacinth can add to this. They want to pursue the why of these deaths, with no risk to Hyacinth. They prepare to ride to Eilmund's cottage. Hugh calls off the manhunt. They meet Rafe in the stable, who tells Cadfael he leaves the next day. Cadfael says, you may need my services, he drew blood. Come to me before you leave. At Eilmund's cottage, Hyacinth tells what he knows of Cuthred, after hearing that he was both a murderer and now dead. When they met, Cuthred was not dressed as a priest. Hyacinth stole a habit for him at the priory, so he could transform himself. Cuthred told Dame Dionisia he was a priest and she believed him, but Hyacinth knew he was not. Hugh tells Hyacinth the hunt is called off, he is free to seek work in the town. What name does he choose? Annet says, Hyacinth. In a year and a day, he will come to ask for Annet as his wife. Hugh and Cadfael ride through the forest and talk. One realisation is that the Bosiets, father and son, spent two full months on the hunt for their villein, riding far from home, and stopped only a few days after the father is slain for a chance meeting with the hermit, before he became a hermit. Rafe seeks Cadfael to treat his long knife wound. Tells him his full name is Rafe de Genville, vassal and friend to Brian FitzCount, loyal to the Empress. Rafe is heading to Brian to restore to him what is his. It had been a fair fight between him and the hermit. Both used daggers, as the hermit had no sword. Rafe found what he sought in the reliquary, and in the breviary. A personal letter was hidden in a pocket of the breviary, already read by the dead man—seal broken. Rafe asks, was this sin? In his day, Cadfael would have done the same. Rafe's wound is treated, he says farewell. Hugh and Cadfael talk in the herbarium again, reviewing. Cadfael says, I let him go. He? asks Hugh. Rafe de Genville, the man who killed Cuthred/Bourchier in a fair fight, for good reason. Cadfael did not ask how Rafe found clues that brought him to Shrewsbury. Cadfael knew one clue, when Richard yelled that the hermit was no priest. Rafe sought a cheat, found him in the hermitage. Cadfael "drew a bow at a very long venture" asking if Rafe sought the murderer of the missing messenger. Horse with no man, man with no horse, Cadfael had linked these together. Hugh recoils realizing the full horror of the crime that Renaud Bourchier first committed, fouler than murder. Deliberate dishonor is what Bourchier pursued when he left as the trusted messenger who coldly and practically made his new opportunities for the future. That letter from the Empress might have been blackmail, if the Empress's husband in Normandy sought divorce—these are the calculations Bourchier was making. Hugh is persuaded Rafe acted rightly. All the mysteries are solved, the treason revenged, the innocent preserved, the lovers united, honour upheld.