John Cameron Butler, a young boy from a Pennsylvanian Colony in America is taken hostage during a raid by a Lenni Lenape tribe during territorial wars. None of the Pennsylvanian men rescue him, and he is adopted by tribesman Cuyloga into the Native American society and rechristened "True Son". Believing himself to be of Indian blood, he hates the colonists, and 11 years later, the American military men come to return him to his colonial home. His Native American father reluctantly gives him back to the colonists, in exchange for the return of some Indian lands. His cousin, Half Arrow, and his friend, Little Crane, accompany him on his journey to the new settlement, but soon they must leave him before they venture too far out of Native American territory. True Son returns to his colony of origin and finds it hard to communicate with his English speaking family. His family tries reconnecting with their lost son, but he refuses to have any part in the English colony. His Aunt Kate remarks upon the objects that seem to be randomly missing from their places. Later, we find out True Son has been stealing various items for his journey back to the Native Americans. Little Crane was killed the previous night by his white racist Uncle Wilse, and he and Half Arrow go to scalp his uncle. His uncle fights back and calls for help, and True Son and Half Arrow forget their attempt and begin their trip back. True Son and Half Arrow return home and inform Cuyloga of the murder. Little Crane's family rallies a group to go raid the settlement to avenge Little Crane. All the men of the tribe go, as do True Son and Half Arrow. The tribe makes plans to ambush a boat. True Son was to tell them when to ambush the boat. True Son, instead, told the people on the boat that they were to be ambushed, thus betraying his Indian family and tribe. The tribe then forces him to go back to his white family. In the end it is Cuyloga who brings him back to the territory line and tells him that from that point on they will separate and become enemies, if they happen to see each other again they will treat each other like enemies and not like father and son.