After the events in the Scorch, Thomas is locked up for solitary confinement for 26 days. He is released and Assistant Director Janson(Rat Man) admits to him and the other Gladers (including ones from Group B) that there is no cure for the Flare and that they were lying to them about it. He then announces that some people, including Newt, are not immune to the Flare. Everybody else, though, is immune. He also warns them that many people in the outside world hate them because of their natural resistance to the Flare and that if they escape they will probably be in more danger. Janson then gives the Gladers a chance to get their memories back. Even though Minho, Newt, and Thomas say no to it, they are forced to. Luckily Brenda, who Thomas met in the Scorch, helps them escape. They discover the Gladers who wanted their memories escaped too. Before leaving, Newt gives Thomas a note that he can't read until "the time is right". Shortly after that, Thomas, Newt, and Minho help the other remaining Gladers - about half are missing - to escape onto a Berg, a massive VTOL aircraft. Jorge reveals himself to be a pilot, and that Teresa, Aris, Frypan, and the other Gladers who are not with Thomas have escaped on one of the 3 Bergs. Some guards break into the hangar, wielding Launchers (which fire electrical stun grenades) and pistols. Jorge manages to get all of them into the air, but both Thomas and Brenda are struck by Launcher grenades. They fly to Denver, where Teresa and the others have escaped to. They pretend to be people looking for a job when really they are there to see Hans, a former WICKED neurologist who has escaped. While they are on their trip, they meet up with Gally, a previous Glader who tried to kill Thomas, and now a member of the Right Arm, an underground organization dedicated to destroying WICKED. Hans performs an operation on Thomas, after a brawl with Thomas due to WICKED's attempt to control him, removing the implant in his brain that allows him to telepathically talk with Teresa and Aris and that lets WICKED monitor where he is. When the operation is completed, Brenda, Jorge, Minho, and Thomas go into a coffee shop to eat. When an infected man is discovered in the coffee shop, Thomas decides to stay and watch what is happening so he is kidnapped by the coffee shop guard. When he is about to get in his car, a flying law enforcement vehicle shoots the man down, and on the screen is Janson, who tells Thomas to come back to WICKED for Phase 3 of the Trials. When the group arrives back at their Berg, they discover that Newt is missing. They find a note from Newt which states that some people found him and took him to a Crank sanctuary, where Cranks live before they go crazy. Thomas attempts to persuade Newt to come back but is forced to leave at gunpoint (because Newt is holding a Launcher). The entire visit Newt claims that Thomas failed him. A riot breaks out and a massive Crank escape occurs, with Thomas, Brenda, Jorge, and the others narrowly getting away in the Berg. After the Berg lands back at the airport, Thomas reads the letter that Newt gave him while they were escaping from the WICKED complex. It says, "Kill me. If you've ever been my friend, kill me.". Thomas realizes that Newt forced them to leave because Thomas had not followed the letter's directions. Once they open the Berg's bay door, the group are captured by 3 bounty hunters who are wielding Launchers and pistols. Bags are put over their faces and they are driven to an unknown complex. There, the group overpower the guards, and at gunpoint, they tell that they work for the Right Arm. There, they also meet Teresa and the other subjects who were also captured by the same bounty hunters. Minho demands that they take Thomas and Brenda to their headquarters, where they want to speak to the leader of the Right Arm. A captive named Lawrence drives them there in a van. After a ride through a Crank-filled city, they reach the Right Arm headquarters. At the Right Arm's headquarters, they meet Vince, the leader of the Right Arm, and a friend of Gally, whom they also meet. The Right Arm and Thomas plot an infiltration plan to get the Right Arm into the WICKED base. They plan to plant a device in WICKED's headquarters, which is just outside Denver, which will disable their soldiers' weapons (pistols and Launchers), allowing the Right Arm, trained heavily in CQC with traditional weapons (knives, swords, etc.) to gain the upper hand. Thomas volunteers to plant the device because WICKED wants him back for Phase 3 of the Trials. They agree on the plan and Thomas, along with a strike team of 80 men, are driven toward the Berg hangar. At one point while driving, Thomas sees Newt. Lawrence is forced at gunpoint to stop the van as to let Thomas get out and shoot Newt in the head, fulfilling his friend's last wish. They continue on, and Thomas is dropped off a few miles away from the base. He hikes in and is greeted by Janson. Thomas plants the device immediately and has to wait for 1 hour for the device to finish working. During this time, Janson tells Thomas that he is the Final Candidate, and that WICKED needs to perform a fatal brain operation on him to finish the blueprint of the brain, ultimately leading to a vaccine and/or a cure for the Flare. Thomas tries to put off the operation for as long as possible but it is too late. While trying to buy time for himself, he discovers that Janson has contracted the Flare and that he is planning to do anything to complete the brain blueprint. Thomas is eventually saved by Chancellor Ava Paige, head of WICKED, who calls off the operation in favor of a different plan involving the Immunes to restart civilization after the Flare disappears. Chancellor Paige also gives Thomas a map to escape from the Maze to the place she wants him to go to via Flat Trans. Thomas discovers that the 500-600 Immunes that WICKED has gathered are being hidden inside the Maze. He plans on rescuing them when the Maze starts to collapse from the explosives that the Right Arm planted.They flee the maze, losing Immunes in the process due to falling debris. In the underground compound, where the Grievers were kept, Grievers come to life and start killing the Immunes, but Thomas and Teresa manage to put a stop to it, both narrowly escaping death. They make it to the maintenance room with the Flat Trans that Paige mapped out; where they meet the Flare-infected Janson and 6 other WICKED security guards. The Immunes manage to overpower the guards and Thomas strangles Janson. When the maintenance room starts to collapse, a large piece of stone from the ceiling is about to crush Thomas when Teresa tackles him and gets crushed instead. Thomas knows that Teresa cannot survive the massive internal organ damage and is forced to go through the Flat Trans before the whole WICKED complex is destroyed. The Immunes are transported to "paradise", somewhere unspecified. Only some of the original Gladers survived, such as Frypan, Minho, and Gally. While pondering the events that had occurred, Thomas talks to Brenda, and she tries comforting him by describing a bright future. The conversation ends with them hugging, and eventually kissing. In the final WICKED memorandum by Chancellor Paige, she reveals that WICKED released the Flare from a quarantine zone as an attempt to control world population after the sun flare catastrophe and that they have tried to right their wrong by trying to create a cure and a vaccine. She also tells how in a last attempt to save mankind, she transported several Immunes (the Gladers) to a safe area, where they can begin to rebuild mankind. It ends with the quote: "As we tried to instill in each of our subjects over and over, WICKED is good."