The Diamond Girls is about 4 girls (later 5) called Martine, Jude, Rochelle and Dixie. Their mother, Sue, is heavily pregnant with her 5th child and believes it is a boy since she reads tarot cards and peers into a crystal ball. They live in a 3-bedroom apartment in the North Block in Bletchworth which was their best flat ever. Sue decides to move to a proper house on the Planet Estate. Judging the pictures, Sue and the kids think it's a great house but when they arrive, it's the opposite. As they move, they hire Dixie's dad's friend Bruce to help move the furniture. However, the day they move in, Sue goes into labour. Bruce and Martine go with Sue to the hospital and the others are left alone. Dixie then explores the garden and meets a shy girl called Mary who has been abused by her mother. When the girls need candles, they go to Mary's house and Dixie hears Mary's mother slapping her. Sue comes home a day later with Sundance, a baby boy. However, when Dixie changes Sundance's nappy, she sees that Sundance is a girl. She keeps this secret to herself and confronts Sue about him. Sue begs Dixie to keep it a secret so she does. Meanwhile, Rochelle gets a boyfriend who is quite a few years older than her. Jude then learns kung fu from Bruce and Martine, unable to cope with the house and moving, runs back to her boyfriend after Sue finding out that Martine's pregnant.When Dixie is playing with Mary, Mary tells Dixie that her mother threw her teddy out. Dixie offers to lend her toy budgie for the night but then regrets it. Dixie later goes to Mary's house to get him back and ends up getting badly injured when Mary jumps out of the window, after Dixie told her to jump off the garden wall. Martine comes back after breaking up with her boyfriend because his mother and him kept badmouthing the Diamonds, despite her pregnancy. After Dixie woke up in hospital with both legs broken, she saw lots of people with a sickly scent, and is informed that Mary's mother is getting help and Mary is staying with other relatives. Sue then tells everyone that Sundance is a girl, not a boy.