The book opens immediately after the events of Under the Eagle, with the troops relaxing and watching prisoners of war fight to the death in a makeshift arena. Cato is bequeathed an ivory-hilted sword by the chief centurion, who was mortally wounded in the ambush and respected Cato for his tenacity. Meanwhile, the legate of the legion, Vespasian, worries about his wife Flavia back in Rome; she has connections to a group of revolutionaries called ‘The Liberators’, who want the feeble-minded Emperor Claudius out of power. Soon afterwards the Second Legion moves off again, heading to the River Meadway (present-day Medway river, in Kent). As the Britons under Caratacus have heavily fortified the opposite bank, Macro and Cato are ordered to scout ahead, to see if there is a ford upstream. Cato finds one, and the next day the attack goes in. The Ninth Legion, supported by artillery fire from triremes on the river, crosses and assault the enemy ramparts. After sustaining heavy losses, the attack falters, and only the Second Legion’s intervention saves the day. Using the ford upstream, the legionaries are able to surprise the Britons and attack them from behind, overrunning their encampment; Cato is badly burned when he accidentally spills a cauldron of boiling water over himself. While recuperating, he strikes up a friendship with the North African surgeon, a Carthaginian called Nisus. They discover that the slingshot the British have been using comes from the Legionary stores, and is linked to the Liberators. There is a traitor high up in the army’s chain of command. Over the next few days, the British are pushed back to the North Kent marshes, on the banks of the Tamesis (or Thames). Vespasian’s legion is ordered to clear the southern bank in preparation for a crossing, but as twilight approaches, the Second Legion is scattered and lost in the marshes. Macro’s unit, with Cato in tow, are ambushed by a warband; Macro holds the Britons at bay while Cato and a handful of men escape by boat. When the roll-call is held, Macro is declared missing, presumed dead. Cato, in a fit of anguish, volunteers to be in the first wave of the troops crossing the river. It is a suicide mission, and he does not expect to live, but he is able to survive long enough for the second wave of Romans to reach him. Macro reappears, having survived his ordeal in the marshes; he chastises Cato for being a fool. Cato renews his friendship with Nisus the surgeon, who lets slip some of his bitterness at being a Carthaginian in the Roman army. Meanwhile, the army has received orders to halt on the far side of the Thames so that Emperor Claudius can arrive and take command in person for the final assault in the British capital at Camulodunum; this is intended to boost his popularity with the mob in Rome. While waiting for the Emperor to arrive, Vitellius, the evil tribune, is plotting to assassinate him. He enlists Nisus, playing on his Carthaginian patriotism, and uses him as a liaison with the British tribes who resist Rome. Unfortunately, while crossing the lines one night, Nisus is accidentally killed by a sentry, and Cato, who is present, takes a bandage from his body; it is covered in strange markings and Cato thinks these are worth investigating. All thought of it is put out of his mind, however, when Claudius arrives, escorted by the Praetorian Guard and elephants to overawe the Britons. He insists on taking charge in the coming battle; despite the Emperor’s buffoonery, the final battle is won and the legions march into Camulodunum. To celebrate ‘his’ victory, Claudius orders a lavish banquet to be held in his honour. Legate Vespasian finally gets to spend some time with his wife, and Cato renews his relationship with the slave girl Lavinia. Unfortunately, she is allied to Vitellius, having consorted with him previously whilst in the ownership of Tribune Plinius. She agrees to smuggle an ornate dagger into the banquet hall, believing it to be a gift for the Emperor. Before she does this, she decides to break up with Cato, who is aware that she is cheating on him with Vitellius. While she does this, Cato is fiddling with the late Nisus’s bandage, which he has in his pocket. When it is rolled up in a certain way, the markings become a coded message; Cato is only able to discover that it concerns a plot to kill the emperor before he is knocked out by Lavinia, who read on ahead and saw Vitellius’ name. When he is woken by Macro, Lavinia has disappeared. The only hope of saving the emperor is to warn Vespasian, who is at the feast, and hope he believes them. They get there in time to see Vitellius and Lavinia being presented to the emperor; while Claudius is distracted by Lavinia’s charms, a supposedly loyal Briton leaps at the emperor with a dagger. Thanks to Cato’s intervention, the German bodyguards are able to catch the assassin and mortally wound him. Vitellius finishes him off before he can talk, and discretely murders Lavinia as he leaves. A distraught Cato is taken away by Macro before he is recognised as the emperor’s saviour, and Vitellius, as in the last book, gets all the credit. He is given a position on the Emperor’s staff, and leaves with Claudius for Rome, leaving the legions to pacify the last remnants of resistance. Vespasian is tasked with an independent command for the coming months; clearing the south bank of the Thames of resistance. As for Cato, he is distracted by Macro, who promises to introduce him to his latest conquest - a young Briton called Boudicca…