The story starts when real-estate agent for the dead named Gloria finds a mysterious box in a magician's house called, The Symphony of Smells, and gives it to Cass and her substitute grandfathers. Cass is an outcast misfit in her school until she stumbles across another misfit, Max-Ernest, who talks too much and has divorced parents but who are still living in the same house. Cass and Max-Ernest become collaborators and investigate the dead magician's&nbsp;– Pietro Bergamo&nbsp;– house only to get caught by a young couple; but not before they find a mysterious journal hidden in a secret room. Later the couple comes to their school looking for them but find a synesthete boy named Benjamin Blake after they examine a piece of art painted by him on display in the school. After initially loathing him, Cass decides its her job to save him. The young couple were nothing but the dangerous Ms.Mauvais and her partner Dr. L.They wanted to achieve eternal glory so as to be immortal. Cass and Max-Ernest eventually find out that Ms.Mauvais has an evil group called Midnight Sun and that she was the one one of the founders. Around this time Cass and Max-Ernest stop being collaborators. Ms.Mauvais kidnaps Benjamin and now its now the responsibility of Cass to save Benjamin. After leafing through some spa brochures collected by her mother, Cass decides to pose as one of the Skelton Sisters, a pop band, and calls The Midnight Sun spa to pick her up in a limousine. Cass then meets Owen, a stuttering servant who sets up her room and tries to make her comfortable. Later that night Owen comes into Cass's room, speaking with a strange accent a notable characteristic he had when she last met him. Max-Ernest and Cass reunite as Owen leaves to go about some business and they discover that the goal of the Midnight Sun is to achieve eternal youth. The duo save Benjamin and a fire breaks out, but before it is implied that Ms. Mauvais' conspirator Dr. L is Pietro Bergamo's brother Luciano. Owen meets up with Max-Ernest, Cass and Benjamin and they all speed away from the spa in the limousine as the light from the orb atop the pyramid dims and eventually goes out. Owen sets off on his own in the limo while Benjamin, Cass, and Max-Ernest drive home with Grandpa Larry. Cass and Max-Ernest become collaborators again shortly before the end. It is then known that Pietro is still alive and has a secret society named Terces Society to fight the Midnight sun and protect the secret from them.He tells Cass and Max-Ernest everything and asks them to join Terces Society.