Lars is trying to get into a club called the St. Petri group, which is against the Nazis and Adolf Hitler taking over Denmark, his home. He has to go through an initiation test and support the weight of the church’s chandelier without dropping it, in order to join. And meanwhile, Lars finds a German Luger (gun) which was stolen by a boy named Otto Hvidemann, who later joins the St.Petri group. After Lars succeeds entry into the group the boys plan their first true sabotage of the German headquarters. The fall is when the boys plan to steal some bombs from the German headquarters so they can later blow up the railroad tracks that will carry the German machinery for the war. But when they get there things go wrong. A phone started to ring and when they tried to stop it they tripped over one another and set off an alarm. The Germans then start to come investigate what all the noise is about so the boys have to run. Everything then happened very quickly; everyone started to run, then they sent the dogs to go and search for the intruders. In the midst of all the confusion Otto stole a rifle and sub-machine gun and helped Gunner and Luffy stuff Gunners backpack with bombs that were hidden in the German headquarters and brought it back for the club to use later on. When the German's attack dog was let loose it came running at Lars. He got scared and shot the dog in the head with the luger. When the gun fired it caused the Germans to think they were getting shot at opposed to the dog. They started to fire at them. So the boys had no other choice but to shoot back at them and when they did more Germans came running and by the end of night many Germans were shot. When they were about to leave, a young German boy who was unarmed was on the ground saying "don't kill me". The boys were going to but Lars told them that they could not or it would make them like the Germans. As they were leaving, Otto got shot in the arm. They took Otto to Dr. Halling for help but the man said no because he suspected what the boys had been up to and that they were the saboteurs all the other times. Gunnar then put the gun to his head and told him “I personally, have shot ten Germans tonight. So one more isn’t going to make much difference.” The doctor finally complied to the boys' requests and patched up Otto's arm, and as they were leaving Gunner said if you tell anyone, you are dead. All the boys got on their bike and rode to the brewery where they sat against the wall talking and listening to the sounds of the sirens from the German airfield that they had triggered hours before. Luffy’s words were already beginning to slur so even though they had only been there for a short time, they decided to congratulate one another and head home. The next day at school, all the boys who were there got called to line up at the front where German soldiers were standing and waiting. The young boy soldier who they had let live the previous day was also with the men and this made Lars and Gunner very nervous. The men started to walk the younger boy down the row of boys as he searched their faces on by one. Then the boy caught Lars' eye and gave him a knowing look as if they were on the same side. Lars fidgeted nervously as the men neared and soon he was standing in front of Lars but he passed him without a second glance. The young boy did the same to Gunner, Luff, and Soren, passing them, pretending that he had never seen the boys. Lars and Gunnar went to the church to fit new candles into the pews, when they saw Sevend (Suckerfish). Gunnar stood in front of Sevend and Sevend was drilling him with questions like “Are you a man of your country” and “Do you feel Danish”. The Nazi German does not intimidate Gunnar or his little Brother when he starts threatening them with bad intentions, and discretely telling them he knew what the boys were up to. The St. Petri Group were all afraid of the outcome of what they are about to do. All the boys planned to sneak away from the school play and run to the railroad tracks where a large train would arrive with a lot of important military machinery. The boys were set strategically around the railroad which they had set with a bomb to go off when the train with military machinery inside it was near. They had Axel positioned at the top of the hill with a bright flashlight to signal when the train came into view and the boys anxiously waited for this signal. Finally the boys saw the signal and were about to set off the bomb. Their cover was compromised and suddenly they were surrounded by German soldiers who immediately started shooting at them. Luffy was mortified and unable to run so Gunnar and Lars grabbed him and began to pull him away from the ruckus. Then Lars noticed that Otto was not with them and turned to see him running toward the train tracks to manually set off the bomb. Lars yelled to him to forget about it but Otto did not listen, he was insisting on setting off the bomb and ran faster for the tracks. Lars then saw Otto reach the tracks just as the train was about to reach the area that was set with bombs. Then there was a large explosion and the train fell off the tracks. The boys then all ran separate ways, Gunner went to the cafe in the woods, Axel went home, Otto ran towards the brick yard, and Lars ran to the school. When Lars arrived at the school he went to find Irene and tell her how he truly felt about her. When he found her they sat down on a bench and he told her that he loved her. Right as Lars told Irene he would never leave her Sevend walked into the room and called to Lars, pulling him away from Irean and telling him he was under arrest. Lars was placed into a cell and the next day united with the other group members as they were marched across the camp to a black armed car. Sevend walked over to them and Gunnar asked him how he knew it was them. Sevend replied that he had found Gunnar's pipe at one of the scenes of the crime, and assumed that they had done all the other things as well. Then Sevend walked away and the boys were forced into the car with other police men and as the doors were locked and the car began to move, driving them away from their home, Otto sounded a bell to signal that he had not been captured and that he was free and safe.