Anand is a twelve-year-old boy who lives in modern India. A believer in fairy tales and magic, he used to go to school until his family could no longer afford to pay for his lessons. His father had left two years before the start of the story. His sister, Meera, on the other hand, had been hurt mentally when she witnessed a murder. Thus, Anand and his mother had been forced to work. Anand has been employed by a tea shop owner, Haru, who is frequently displeased with Anand's work and pays very little. One day, the shop was visited by an old man, whom Haru assumes to be a beggar. Ordered to take the beggar out of Haru's shop, Anand gently guides the old man out and, feeling sympathetic, gives the old man his lunch of stale pooris and weak tea. Later that night, Anand find the old man at his door. The man, who introduces himself as Abhaydatta, tells his story of a group of Healers, known as the brotherhood, who wield magic in a place called the Silver Valley, hidden deep within the Himalayas. He also reveals that a powerful magical item, the Conch, has been stolen from the brotherhood by one of its members, Surabhanu. This resulted in the weakening of the Brotherhood, thus, they sent four pairs of Healers to search for the conch. Abhaydatta and his partner have, indeed, retrieved the conch, however, his partner died buying Abhaydatta time to escape from Surabhanu. Abhaydatta asks Anand for help in his journey back to the Silver Valley. He revealed that it is Anand's belief in magic that drew Abhaydatta and the Conch to Kolkata. Sensing Anand's hesitation, Abhaydatta healed Meera. However, Anand's mother arrived and, finding no visible effect on Meera, ordered Abhaydatta out of the house, despite Anand's protests. Abhaydatta left, informing them where he will be and what time he will leave, with or without Anand. The next morning, Anand was awakened by Meera's voice; she was cured during the night and was able to speak normally again. His mother gave her consent and let Anand go. Unfortunately, for Anand, Abhaydatta had already left. Anand meets Nisha, a girl sweeping in front of a soft drinks stall, who tells him she knows where Abhaydatta will be waiting. After Anand reluctantly agrees to let her come, she leads him to the train station. There, they ran into Surabhanu, disguised as a wealthy passenger. He manages to hold the struggling children until a mysterious candy vendor helps them escape. Outside the station, they meet a blind beggar woman who, after receiving alms from Anand, points the two children in the direction of the meeting point where Anand and Nisha finally find Abhaydatta. The Healer was initially disapproving of Nisha but relented, nonetheless. The three started on their journey towards the Silver Valley. Along the way, Abhaydatta told the children of the journey ahead and what to do if they get separated from him. He told of the dangers they will face and the three trials they will have to pass before reaching the Silver Valley. Abhaydatta also secretly entrusted the Conch to Anand; Surabhanu would not expect the Healer to trust the Conch to a boy. Surabhanu, however, caught up to the three. In the duel that ensued, Anand and Nisha escaped but Abhaydatta has mysteriously vanished. As they journeyed, Anand began hearing the conch talk to him and respond to his thoughts. It reveals to Anand that it will allow itself to be used only after all human solutions have been exhausted. A mongoose also joins the two children, saving them from trouble a few times along the way and earning Nisha's appreciation. They finally reach the first trial of the Brotherhood: a raging river none of them can cross. The mongoose, however, steps into the river, which stilled as the animal and the two children made their way across. Upon reaching the second trial, an enchanted rocky pass, Anand was forced to decide between going on alone or staying with Nisha. A bit of ingenious thinking allowed both of them to cross the pass, however, Nisha was injured badly. Unfortunately, Surabhanu caught up to the two children in the form of a red snake. He reveals that Nisha had been under his control since their encounter at the train station. Surabhanu orders her to smash Anand's head with a rock but the mongoose, which had been Abhaydatta all along, fought with Surabhanu. The mongoose was defeated, which pained Nisha and caused her to betray Surabhanu. The conch finally allows Anand to use it, defeating Surabhanu in a wave of fire. Anand arrives at the gate to the Silver Valley. There, in the final trial, he was made to choose between glory in the Silver Valley or his friends. Giving up the conch, he chose to remain with an injured Nisha and a mongoose Abhaydatta. The Brotherhood declares that he has passed the final test, the trial within his mind, and welcomes Anand, Nisha and Abhaydatta into the Silver Valley. With the Conch restored in the Valley, Abhaydatta was restored to his human form and, with some help from Anand and Nisha, his mind was also turned back from that of a mongoose into his old self. Nisha was inducted as a novice, the first female member of the Brotherhood, which made Anand wonder why the Brotherhood did not invite him to join them. Abhaydatta talks to Anand and reveals that, unlike Anand, Nisha has no family. Thus, it was Anand who had to choose between the Brotherhood or his family which had just found Anand's father and he was imprisoned for a crime he did not comit. Anand chose to stay with the Brotherhood so the Healers made his family forget he had ever been a part of their lives. Anand, however, was not allowed to forget them for, as a Healer, he should remember the pain and what he had given up for the Brotherhood. Anand was then inducted not just as a novice but also as the titular Conch Bearer.