The Sign of the Beaver tells the story of a 13-year-old boy, Matthew Hallowell, and his father, who, as early settlers, together build a wooden cabin in Maine in 1768. However, Matt's father must head back to Quincy, Massachusetts, to get Matt's mother, sister, and newborn baby, who were all left behind so Matt and his father could build shelter, plant crops and stock supplies. Matt's father promises to return in seven weeks. Before Matt's father leaves, he gives him his watch to tell time and a hunting rifle to guard the crops and the newly built cabin. Unfortunately, Matt finds himself enduring many hardships for which he is unprepared. His hunting rifle is stolen by a stranger named Ben, his crops are eaten by the wildlife, and his food supplies are pillaged by a bear. Wanting to sweeten his bland diet, Matt raids a honeybee hive for honey and is attacked by the furious bees. Attempting to escape the swarm, he jumps into a creek, losing a shoe and hurting his ankle in the process. Luckily, Matt's foolhardy adventure has not gone unnoticed and he is pulled from the water. Ironically, the native Indians he has learned to fear through tales of kidnapping have saved his life. His numerous stings are treated by the elderly Penobscot Indian chief named Saknis. After recovering, the thankful Matt offers his only book, Robinson Crusoe, as a gift to Saknis, and his grandson Attean. However they cannot read English. Saknis instead commands that Matt teach Attean to read, in return they will provide him with food. Uncertain of how to teach anyone, especially the unwilling boy, Matt accepts the task out of gratitude and courtesy, as he owes his life to the man. Matt does not immediately befriend Attean, although the two young boys eventually form a strong friendship as they help each other through difficult circumstances. Attean goes off to find his manitou, which is a sign of becoming a man. Attean is afraid because he fears it will take him a very long time. Although Matt longs for Attean to stay he is happy for his friend. Matt asks the question: "What if Attean's manitou doesn't come?" Although this offends Attean because in his culture without it he cannot become a man, he answers "Even if I have to wait many winters I get manitou to become a man". When Attean returns from searching for his manitou, he invites Matt, whose family has not yet returned after many months, to join his tribe, who are moving north to new hunting grounds. Although Matt is good friends with Attean and enjoys Indian culture, he has not forgotten his family. Matt has to decide whether to join the Indian tribe, or return to his cabin and continue to wait for his family to return. He decides to wait, although parting from his new friend, Attean, is difficult. The two boys trade gifts; Matt gives Attean his treasured watch that his father gave him before he left, and Attean leaves his dog behind with Matt. Attean's grandmother gives Matt some maple sugar, and Saknis gives Matt a pair of snowshoes. After he cut the last notch on the last stick, Matt waits for his family, using the survival skills he had learned with Attean. In the winter, Matt's family finally returns, though Matt's little sister (who he hadn't met) died. Matt decides he would tell them about Attean and the whole Indian tribe. *1983 Josette Frank Award (won) *1984 Christopher Award (won) *1984 A Booklist Editors' Choice (won) *1984 Horn Book Fanfare (won) *1984 Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction (won) *1984 An American Library Association Notable Children's Book citation *1984 An American Library Association Best Book for Young Adults (won) *1983–1984 Young Hoosier Book Award (nominee) *The New York Times Best Book of the Year