Just as World War II began to turn against them, the Nazis were suddenly championed by the Norse pantheon. However, Loki joins the Allies, and they prepare a last-ditch sneak attack against Valhalla called Operation Ragnarok. The story follows Captain Chris Turing, who is part of the team which is going to attack Valhalla and starts out with them traveling to their attack destination in a group of submarines hoping that what remained of the United States Surface Navy would be able to distract the Nazi and Norse pantheon forces. Originally the plan was for Chris' team and their commando escorts, but Loki informs Chris that he will accompany his troops to Gotland. Due to Loki's previous actions in aiding the Allies and the way he ended the Holocaust by saving the inmates of the concentration camps, Chris agrees and convinces Major Marlowe to allow it. While waiting for them to get to their destination, Chris recollects his memory of World War II and how the Nazi Party was about to be defeated by the allied forces until they received the aid of the Norse pantheon. Loki notices Chris and allows the captain to ask the Norse God three questions. Loki answers the questions asked, and in one answer mentions how he does not think that he is older than Chris and also implies that the Nazi extermination camps were established for reasons other than for "Nazi racial purification." The group arrives at Gotland, and during the operation Loki disappears and Thor defeats the troops. The survivors of Operation Ragnarok are taken prisoner after the failed mission and are given to Thor by his father Odin. While in custody, Chris recollects his memory of World War II and how the Nazi Party was about to be defeated by the Allied forces. He recalls how as a child he wished that he would have an event like the war that he could partake in like his father did. He ends up discussing the history of World War II with his captured troops, and ends up being taken to be interrogated by Thor and argues with the group about the way the United States should have simply bombed Germany in order to end the war as soon as possible. After this conversation, Chris is taken to be interrogated by Thor. At first, a Nazi starts interrogating him, but after the captain successfully angers the interrogator through verbal banter Thor interrogates him. Thor tries to get Chris to reveal the whereabouts of Loki, but the captive captain does not tell him and does not know. O'Leary ends up insulting Thor, insisting that they are aliens, and as a result Thor orders his death before revealing that the Norse pantheon were invited "upon the wings of death itself." O'Leary later tells Chris that Loki told O'Leary to tell Chris an answer to one of his questions: Necromancy. Chris realizes that the Death Camps were built not for "racial purification", but for human sacrifices to fuel magic. The captain also realizes that the Norse Gods were created by Necromancy due to Loki's admission that he is actually young. After realizing that he has gained superhuman powers from Loki, Chris attacks the guards and dies in an attempt to resist the Norse Gods after managing to destroy Odin's Spear. In doing so, he hopes that his actions will give hope to other heroes who will eventually rise up to overcome the Nazis.