Cassandra Palmer is a clairvoyant. She can see visions of the future as well as communicate with the spirits of the dead. These unusual gifts make her make her attractive to both the dead and the undead. Ghosts recognise that Cassandra is one of the rare people who can actually see them so they love to talk to her and all in all they are fairly harmless. However undead vampires are not so harmless. Ever since she was a child Cassie had been forced to work for Tony, a ruthless vampire Mafioso. She managed to escape from him three years ago but has been on the run ever since. When he finds her and sends his vampire thugs to kill her she is forced to turn to the Vampire senate for protection. Raised by vampires from childhood she knows that vampires are not motivated to act out of kindness. They will definitely want something in return but what will it be and is it something that she is willing to give? While she is meeting with the senate, a rogue vampire launches an assassination attempt on the senate's members and it becomes clear to Cassie that the vampires have problems of their own. In fact the whole magical world is on the brink of war with itself due to the Pythia (a powerful seer and the Guardian of Time) being on her deathbed and the official heir to her powers being mysteriously missing. Every faction of magical being, light or dark, appears to be jostling for position at this time of upheaval and every one wants control of the Pythia and her powers. As Cassie starts to have powerful visions of the past, it becomes apparent that her powers are changing. As one of the heirs to the Pythia she seems to be acquiring her new skills as power leaches out of the old Pythia. Cassie has enough knowledge of vampire ways to know that if she was attractive to them as a clairvoyant, as a potential Pythia they will never let her go…. In Touch the Dark, Cassandra "Cassie" Palmer is introduced as a powerful clairvoyant who has been on the run for three years from Antonio "Tony," a criminal vampire who raised her after her parents' death. It was Antonio's intention, as Cassie grew up, to use her increasing powers for his own purposes. As Antonio wished to keep the benefits of Cassie's powers to himself, he kept her isolated in his enclave. The only people Cassie got to see on a regular basis were her governess, Eugenie; Rafe, a servant vampire; and Mircea Basarab, Tony's master vampire. As well as the gift of clairvoyance, she is also able to talk to, and see, ghosts, some of whom she has made friends. One ghost in particular, Billy Joe, is her best friend. The story commences three years after her escape from Tony's clutches, after Cassie found out that he had her parents killed.