Truesight, a novel written by David Stahler, Jr., takes place in the futuristic colony, Harmony Station, which is located on a foreign planet. Everyone in harmony is willingly or genetically blind. They follow the philosophy of Truesight in which people cannot see, so they do not get caught up in external beauty of the world but internal beauty of people. The protagonist, Jacob, is a 12 going on 13 year old boy living in Harmony. While at school, he has a terrible headache that is described as being like “a web of fire.” The headaches eventually leads to Jacob receiving sight. The novel portrays this as a gradual shift from blur to clarity. While in the early stages of his sight’s development, Egan, Jacob’s best friend, proposes that they check out a delivery. Deliveries are the rare occasions in which “seers” bring supplies or food from Harmony’s Earth-based foundation located in Australia. Harmony’s rules state that every citizen must be inside their houses during a delivery following the curfew unless otherwise authorized. Jacob manages to escape his house and he finds a bush to hide behind to check out the delivery. He finds another of his friends, Delaney, who is the daughter of the high councilor, and his mother’s prime music student, there too. Both of them are discovered and run in different directions. Jacob gets back to his house, but Delaney dies. Later, after running down a hill with Egan and falling, Jacob can see clearly. He has to keep his sight a secret. He skips school one day and saves a field worker’s life but cannot tell anyone because he would be discovered. He plays games in which he avoids other people’s detection as he passes them on the streets. He enjoys this sight, but that goes against the very foundation of his community. He tells Egan the secret of his sight, but Egan turns him in. Jacob is taken to the high councilor’s house and is sentenced to surgery to remove his sight as well as his memory of sight. He is conflicted by the idea that sight isn’t necessarily a bad thing. He goes to Delaney’s grave using a tool people in Harmony use to find other people called a finder. However, he concludes that she’s not dead, but that she ran away because the finder points away from the community. He doesn’t run away to find her too due to his lack of preparation. While Jacob is preparing for his surgery, he talks to the high councilor. He learns that the high councilor is having an affair with Jacob’s mother and that the high councilor can see too. Jacob jumps up and runs away. He grabs provisions from his house and exits harmony “for good”