Three friends, Angela Silver (SnowAngel), Zoe Barrett (zoegirl), and Madigan "Maddie" Kinnick (mad maddie) are just starting tenth grade of high school. At the beginning of the book, the trio (also known as the winsome threesome) believe that they will stick together forever. Zoe wants something meaningful and big to happen in her life, Angela knows it is going to be a fabulous year and that she is going to meet the boy of her dreams, and Maddie can't help but feel low and down on herself. When Angela discovers that Rob Tyler is in her French class, she develops a crush on him. Maddie notices how mean Jana Whitaker, the school's queen bee, is to her and to other students. Zoe talks to Maddie about her meeting with the english teacher that she calls Norman (in which she says they talked about Christianity and the meaning of life) and Maddie quickly concludes that he is "hitting" on Zoe. Rob finally asks Angela out and the two have a fun time together, which is how Angela describes it. Later, she reveals to her friends that Rob is "the one", as in the one she goes all the way with. The next day, Angela is unable to go on a planned date with Rob since her mother grounded her for going to a bar without permission. Angela then learns that Rob went out with Tonnie Wyndham while she had to stay home. Rob apologizes and states that Tonnie refused to let him call Angela. Days later, Rob goes on another date (while he was supposed to be on a date with Angela and left her waiting) with Tonnie and says that she asked him out and he didn't know how to say no. Angela breaks up with him after this. Maddie gives Jana a ride home (when she was supposed to give Angela a ride) and Angela gets mad at her. While they are instant messaging (IM), Angela reveals to Zoe that she now has a crush on Ben Schlanker, a boy in the Drama club. Four days later, Zoe tells Angela that there was feces on the side of her jeans after driving her home from church (presumably Norman's). Maddie reveals the idea that she and Jana came up with: to cause a traffic jam by slowing down to the speed limit. After Maddie and Jana (with several other students) try this out, Angela gets mad at Maddie for bragging about it via IM. Zoe tells Angela that Norman spilt urine in her hair while she was in his car. For Halloween, the trio plan to go trick or treating as mold, fungus and dust. When Halloween arrives, though, Maddie ditches her friends and doesn't show up. She messages Angela later in the night and explains everything. Apparently, Jana had taken Maddie to a party where Maddie got drunk, took her shirt and bra off, and defecated everywhere and did a table dance in front of everyone. To Zoe, Maddie tells her the reason she suspects Jana took her to the party and got her drunk. Once when Maddie was driving Jana home, she made fun of Jana by recalling the time when one of Jana's friends called Jana a lesbian. Later, Angela accidentally tells Zoe about Maddie's table dance and Maddie gets angry at Angela because she didn't want Zoe to know. Maddie stops talking/instant messaging her friends because of this. Meanwhile, Zoe realizes Norman really is hitting on her after he invites her to go hot tubbing with him and tells her that she "would look good in a bikini". Zoe also informs Angela that Jana started a chain letter with a picture of Maddie half naked and covered in feces, and that the title of the letter was "Lesbian slut". Angela sends Maddie a message saying that there was an emergency and Maddie starts to IM again. The trio decide to go hot tubbing with Norman together, since that way Zoe won't be alone with him. At the end of the book (after they have gone hot tubbing with Norman), the winsome threesome patch up and decide to go to a breakfast bar to celebrate.