The main influence in fourteen-year-old Will Burrows' life is his father, Dr. Burrows, and together they share an interest in archaeology and a fascination for the buried past. When Dr. Burrows begins to notice unusual people where they live in Highfield and then promptly goes missing, Will and his friend, Chester, go in search of him. They discover a blocked passageway behind bookshelves in the cellar of the Burrows home and re-excavate it. The passage leads to a door set into the rock, and beyond the door is an old lift that takes them to a cobblestone street underground. Lit by a row of orb-like lamps, they come across houses that appear to be carved out of the walls themselves. They are soon captured by the police of the underground community known as the Colony. In prison, Will is visited by Mr. Jerome and his son Cal. They reveal Will was actually born in the Colony, and they are his real family. Will is eventually released from the prison and taken to the Jerome home. There Uncle Tam is delighted to see him, and informs Will that his stepfather was recently there, and had willingly traveled down into the Deeps&nbsp;— a place even deeper in the Earth than The Colony. Will learns that the Styx, the religious rulers of the Colony, are either going to enslave Chester or banish him to the Deeps to fend for himself. Will refuses to abandon his friend, and Uncle Tam formulates a plan for him to rescue Chester, and to take him back to the surface. Will and his brother Cal try to rescue Chester, but the Styx arrive and they are forced to leave Chester behind. They avoid the Styx soldiers who patrol the city with their vicious stalker attack dogs, and eventually emerge on the bank of the Thames. Will makes for his home in Highfield, but there Will's health deteriorates, so Cal helps him to his Auntie Jean's flat where he recovers. Soon they return underground to find his father and attempt a second rescue of Chester. They encounter another Styx patrol, and Uncle Tam kills the leader of the Styx, whom he calls Crawfly, but is mortally wounded in the fight, then the strong willed Uncle Tam choses to stay behind. With the help of Imago Freebone, a member of Uncle Tam's gang, Will and Cal escape and go on to find Chester. They find Chester in the train going to the Deeps and travel there with him. In the book's final scene, Will's sister Rebecca, who is a Styx implanted in his family to monitor him, kills Imago by poison.