In the final installment of The Mediator series, Suze finds herself fighting for the love of her life, Jesse. When Paul reveals he has found a way to time travel, another gift all Mediators share, he tells Suze he plans on going back to Jesse's time and save him from his murder. Thus altering time so that Suze and Jesse will have never met nor fell in love and meaning Paul is able to have Suze to himself. Desperately trying to stop him, Suze struggles to prevent Paul from doing so, but in the progress finds herself torn between meeting her one true love or letting him live the life he deserves. On the night when Paul "shifts" and travels through the forth dimension (time travel) Suze accidentally travels as well back to Jesse's time when he was alive and meets up with Paul and hides out in the O'Neil's barn (friends of the De Silvas back then). After she goes to the outhouse and Paul finds her, he bounds and gags her before going to go to find Felix Diego, Jesse's murderer. Just when she gives up and convinces herself Jesse deserves to live, the Alive Jesse - who unties her - stumbles upon her in the barn and Suze tries to convince him that she is a Mediator from the future and that he is in great danger; telling him that Felix Diego is out to kill him and how they met 150 years into the future. At first, he thinks she is delusional and is angered by her accusations about Maria and Diego out to kill him. However, he is finally convinced when Suze tells him how he wants to become a doctor, but can't because of his parents; something that he never told anyone, including Maria. Suze then tells him he must go, but Alive Jesse refuses to. He then asks her why she traveled back into time to save him and, although she wants to say because of her love for him, she instead says because it isn't right what had happened to him. Paul comes back and finds out Alive Jesse knows about everything. Paul attempts to convince Jesse that Diego was too dangerous and that he should just leave, but Alive Jesse firmly insists that he will stop Diego, prompting Paul to literally doze off. Meanwhile after this, Alive Jesse once again asks Suze why she is helping him, to which she responds, "Because it's what I do." Alive Jesse then asks if she does this for all who die before their time to which her answer is no, but that his is a "special" case. Alive Jesse then goes on to admire her for her bravery, even though Suze disagrees, she smiles at Jesse before Diego shows up. Jesse and Diego fight and battle. Suze, worried, demands for Paul to help Jesse. But as Paul insists everything was under control, Diego grabs Suze and holds a knife to her throat, threatening to kill her causing Jesse to drop his knife. Diego using this chance to throw Suze to the side and lunge at him, however, Jesse manages to throw Diego off the ledge, snapping his neck. Suze ends up landing on a lantern during her fall, breaking it and starting a fire and soon becomes trapped in a circle of fire. Jesse jumps through the flames to Suze despite Paul's protests, and kicks floorboards and tells her they have to jump to safety. Paul yells to Suze that he will meet her "on the other side" and is going to shift back to present time. While Jesse and Suze jump, in midair she shifts and due to holding Jesse's hand brings him back to present times along with her, causing him to slip into a coma and slowly die. This causes Paul to finally realize that Suze was right; some events in time just aren't to be messed with. While Jesse's body is in a hospital Father D shows up and Paul and Suze explain what happened. Father D tells Paul to make amends with his grandfather (who Paul tricked into giving him information on how to use his gifts to time travel for his own selfish wanting) and tells Suze not to be too hard on Paul saying how he thought he was doing "good" to which she replies saying, "He thought he was robbing me of Jesse," and he says back, "In the end, Susannah, that might have actually been kinder, don't you think? Kinder than this, anyway". Also stating that Jesse would have had to have left her one day anyway since he was a ghost. This causes Suze to blame herself for the mess. Father D leaves and Suze begins to sob before Ghost Jesse comes to her in the room. Once seeing his coma state body, he asks what she had done. She explains how she went back into time to save him and prevented his murder, but she accidentally brought him back to present times and that this meant "goodbye." Just as Ghost Jesse leans in to give her a final kiss, his hand brushes against his body's leg (the one in the coma) and for Ghost Jesse to glow brighter than ever before being sucked into the body like "smoke pulled into a fan," before being gone altogether. Suze believes Jesse is now gone forever and sobs harder. Father D shows up to comfort her when he suddenly gets teary eyed, causing her to look at Jesse's body. She notices his hand tightening around her own and sees color in his skin and more alive looking "like back at the O'Neils barn," and breathing and had a pulse. His eyelids open and he removes the oxygen mask and says, "Querida." Suze then goes to her winter formal with Jesse (whose spirit had returned to his body in the hospital and remembered everything about his past life on Earth, in the afterlife and his relationship with Suze) who is now living a normal life and having a real relationship with Suze now that he is alive and no longer a ghost and adapting to the 21st century. Paul apologizes to Suze for all his trouble and says she was right about everything, including about him and her and how she and Jesse really were meant to be together, now finally convinced. They make peace. Jesse shows up and makes an awkward hello to Paul before walking off with Suze. He asks her if things with Paul were okay and she tells him everything was finally okay before they share a slow dance. Suze's father's ghost comes and Suze and him make their final goodbyes before he vanishes; forever crossing over. Jesse asks her if Suze's father was now "gone", shocking Suze. She asks him if he saw her father to which he replies that he saw their whole conversation, revealing that he is not only just alive now, but also a Mediator. As Jesse and Suze continue to dance, he says how he just doesn't understand why her father took so long to cross over. Suze says, "Do you really not know?" Causing him to shake his head, smiling as Suze smiles back feeling that her heart "might burst with joy."