13-year-old Margaret Anne Brady is an orphan whose parents died when she was only 8 years old. Subsequently sent to live in an orphanage, she lives a life of penury and dreams that her older brother, William, who lives in America, will someday earn enough money to send for her. One day, however, her fortunes take an unexpected turn for the better when a wealthy, privileged woman named Mrs. Carstairs expresses the desire for a companion for her upcoming trip to the States. The job, which involves simple tasks such as dressing her and walking her dog, is easy, and Margaret Anne accepts readily. Within merely a few days, Margaret Anne and Mrs. Carstairs board the Titanic, the newly-built and highly glamourous liner deemed to be "unsinkable," as first-class passengers. There, Margaret Anne, who has lived most of her life in destitute conditions, is enthralled by her luxurious premises. She quickly befriends a handsome, young steward, Robert, and their relationship gradually turns romantic. All is going well when one night, April 15th, 1912 (2:20), and Margaret Ann are awoken by a frantic Robert who informs that the ship has just struck an iceberg and advises them to put on their lifejackets. The two women obey and hurridly make their way up to the deck where they discover with horror that the ship is sinking rapidly. Though her life is hanging in precariously on the line, Margaret Ann is adverse to leaving Robert, who is part of the crew and must remain on the cruiser, and runs back to him. Finding him sitting dejectedly alone in an vacuous hallway, she attempts to persude him to follow her. Robert, though, replies her that he can't, and the two share a long, passionate kiss before parting. Back on deck, Margaret Anne is rapidly put in a lifeboat and whisked away. Floating for several hours, the small group is finally rescued when a passing ship picks them up. There, everyone, including Margaret Ann, is treated for pneumonia and put to rest. Though she expresses hope for Robert's survival, it is later revealed in the book that he, in fact, did go down with the ship.