Will Fuller, a grade nine student, is in history class with his best friend James Bennett. As the class comes to an end, James tells the class how he will be going with his dad, a firefighter, to work tomorrow while Will is dreading tomorrow as he must go with his distant dad, John Fuller, who he describes to be never home due to work, to his office on the 85th floor at the South World Trade Centre Tower. Early next morning, Will finds himself commuting to his dad's office via car and subway. They meet some of John's friends there. Will later learns that everyone had their own "seat" that they sit in the same place every single day. When they finally arrive, Will is overwhelmed by the sight of the World Trade Center, but is still unsure of the day ahead of him. To his surprise, him and his dad first visit the Observation Deck before returning to their office a few stories down. Upon arriving at the office, Will is left with John's secretary, Suzie, where he is introduced to a colleague of his dad, Phil. Afterwards, he returns to his dad's room, where a sudden, loud noise rocks them. To their surprise, the North Tower has been hit by an airplane, and John, the fire Warden of the floor, orders the floor to evacuate despite their tower being intact. Reluctant at first, the employees eventually begin their way down the tower. As their office leaves, John goes around to other offices on the floor to evacuate the floor, but, one of the managers of one of the offices refuses to leave. As the argument between them become heated, an announcement states that it is not necessary for the tower to evacuate, and that workers may return to their offices. John and Will leave the office, and, despite the announcement, John decides to evacuate anyways. As they head towards the stair case, another sudden, loud noise rocks the building. Running back to the office, they realize that a plane has hit the South Tower. Realizing the danger of fire, John returns to his office and soaks a tie for both of them to use when they reach the stories with fire in the stair case. John also gives Will a whistle to use in case they'll become separated and instructs Will to blow the whistle should it ever happen. As they begin their journey down once again, they are suddenly stopped by a group of people heading up, instead of down, as they tell them that the stair case has been blocked, since the plane hit the levels beneath them, and that they will be heading up to await rescue. Not wanting to risk it, John decides to use another staircase, which is farther away from the crash site, to descent the building. As they descend down, the reach the stories where the crash happened, and finds it extremely difficult at it is extremely hot. Eventually making it through, they come across a level where they find an injured and trapped woman who speaks very little English. Although Will is reluctant at first to carry her down, and instead wants to leave her in the stair case after freeing her, John believes otherwise and carries her down the stairs. As Will realizes his father is becoming red a tired of carrying the woman, named Ting, he offers to alternate the job of carry her down. As they continue down, they eventually come across groups of firefighters, in which one of them they see James' dad. James' dad ask them to take his son home, as he does not want him to go home alone from the station, and they agree to do so. Afterwards, John admits that he did not spend enough time with Will and that he should have put his business aside to spend more time with Will and his mother. Eventually Will, John and Ting make it down the lobby, where paramedics attempt to take a look at Ting. Ting, however, scared, backs away from the paramedics and holds onto John. John says that he'll stay with Ting while she is looked at and will rendezvous with Will outside the tower near at the ambulances after the paramedics make an assessment of Ting's injuries. As Will leaves the building with an officer, he is suddenly blown to his feet on the streets outside the tower by a sudden force. Struggling to regain balance after failing and injuring his arm, he is suddenly taken back by the police officer, explaining that the South Tower has collapsed and they must leave for safety. Realizing that his dad is still in the building when the building collapsed, he turns and runs towards the building, only to be stopped by the police officer again. Suddenly remembering the whistle his father gave him, he frantically blows on it. In the distance, he sees figure resembling his dad and runs toward the figure. As he becomes closer, he confirms that it is in fact his father with Ting still on his back. Upon reuniting, John explains that they just stepped out of the building when the building collapsed. The story ends with Will stating "This is my father, now we can go."