The book Welcome to Camden Falls is about two girls Flora Northrop and Ruby Northrop who are ten years and eight years old respectively. Flora is very quiet and loves to sew. She likes to work in her grandmother's tailoring shop called Needle and Thread which she runs with Flora's friend Olivia's grandmother Gigi. Ruby is nothing like her sister. She loves to dance and sing. She even gets the lead role in a play. When orphaned Flora and Ruby move in with their grandmother Min (their legal guardian), which is a nickname given to her by Flora because when Flora was young whenever she asked for something Min always said “in a minute”. Her real name is Mindy Read. Their parents died in a car accident on a frosty January evening. Flora's father had said that they could go out for pizza but Flora wanted to finish her homework. But anyway Flora, Ruby, their mom and dad got into the car. Although, it was January and Christmas had passed, Flora’s and Ruby’s mom had said it was the last chance for singing Christmas carols. So Ruby had shouted “Winter Wonderland”, but before she could say anything more, a truck traveling too fast for a snowy evening crossed over the center line and thundered into their car. Flora, Ruby, and her parents were taken to the hospital and Flora and Ruby found out that their parents had died. So they went to live with their grandmother Min in Camden Falls, Massachusetts after the school year got over. There was a welcoming party when they arrived. Flora had a good friend named Olivia Walter (who is a full year younger than Flora, but skipped a grade so she is in the same grade as Flora) who lived in the same strip of row houses called The Row Houses. They also become very good friends with a girl named Nikki Sherman who lives in the other side of the town. Nikki had troubles of her own. Her family is very poor. She and her sister Mae are often made fun of on the bus because they often wear clothes with holes and they smell bad. Her dad always comes home drunk. Flora and Ruby start to stitch their lives in Camden Falls with fun, frolic and gloom. The novel series Main Street revolves around two sisters named Flora and Ruby Northrop. Flora is a shy and quiet girl with a passion for sewing whilst her sister, Ruby, has different interests. She loves to sing and dance and being in the spotlight. They two are very different sisters but love each other dearly. ( Welcome to Camden Falls ) When Flora and Ruby's parents die in a car crash, they both are sent to live with their grandmother, Mindy Davis Read, whom they nicknamed 'Min'. They both are reluctant to leave their old town to move to Camden Falls but they really have no choice. Flora and Ruby learn to adjust in their new life and they both befriend Olivia Walter, a girl who was a full year younger than Flora. Flora and Ruby go through ups and downs of their lives and they try to be friends with Nikki Sherman, a lonely girl whose family is 'broken'. As Flora and Ruby begin to put their lives back together, they discover something very important. Find out in the book!