The story begins when a wizard named Arriman the Awful decides to choose a wife from his hometown of Todcaster; his ulterior motive is a prophecy that foretells that another, darker wizard will take over Arriman's burden of smighting and blighting, which bore him by now. It is proposed by his servant that the prophecy must have meant Arriman's son. Since Arriman has no son, nor even a wife, the seven witches of Todcaster are to take part in a contest that will decide whom he will marry: whichever witch performs the blackest act of magic will be his bride. However, most of the witches of Todcaster are downright revolting and nasty. The exception to this is Belladonna, who is beautiful and secretly loves Arriman, but is a white witch, unable to perform any black magic. Before the contest begins, Belladonna encounters a small orphan named Terrence Mugg and helps rescue him from the orphanage using an uncharacteristically dark spell. Believing that Terrence's pet worm Rover is her familiar, an animal that is key to her working dark magic, she and Terrence agree to work together. While the other witches' magic goes hilariously or horribly wrong when it is their turn in the competition, there is one problem Belladonna didn't count on. Madame Olympia, a truly evil enchantress joins the contest and is willing to do anything to make sure she will win the hand of Arriman. After spending time with Arriman, Terrence discovers the perfect piece of magic for Belladonna to do: raise the ghost of Sir Simon, Arriman's friend, which Arriman has been trying to do for some time. Olympia, on her day, performs a terrifying piece of magic known as the "Symphony of Death." It seems that unless Belladonna can perform her necromancy, she will certainly lose. However, the day before her turn, her familiar goes missing. Only Terrance knows, as Rover was with him at all times. Without telling Belladonna, Terrance devises a plan with Arriman's servants (who all agree that Belladonna would be the best wife for Arriman). Terrance goes into town to hire an actor to play Sir Simon. Belladonna, unaware that Rover is gone, performs as scheduled. After an amazing display, "Sir Simon" appears to everyone, alive. Arriman is overjoyed. A message saying that the actor was unable to arrive on time, however, jolts the plotters into the realization that Sir Simon has truly been resurrected. It turns out, however,it was not Belladonna who did it, but Terrence, who hid with her to hold Rover for all her performances and imitated her spell-casting. Delighted to have found his prophesied replacement, Arriman marries Belladonna and they take Terrence in as Arriman's pupil. sv:Häxtävlingen