During a routine day, Det. III Shane Scully accidentally strikes John Bodine, a homeless schizophrenic African America man with his car. After getting him medical attention and trying to offload the man without a lawsuit, Scully is called to a homicide where he finds a cop and former Crip gangbanger in his wife Alexa's car, and Alexa missing. A series of leads eventually finds Scully interrogating Lou "Luna" Maluga, a psychotic sociopath, and his estranged wife Stacy, the titular "White Sister," both big names in the rap music industry. After being repeatedly ordered to cease investigation and threatened with criminal charges or dismissals, Scully is given an out if he returns his wife's personal computer, only to find a series of romantic emails between his wife and the "Dark Angel," the same police officer found shot in Alexa's car with Alexa's weapon. Later, his son will point out that the majority of the text are veiled references to several rap slang terms and groups, making the messages coded transmissions from the undercover officer. During this time, he receives a phone call from Alexa where she confess to the murder and apparently commits suicide, leaving her in critical condition. Following Stacy Maluga, Scully is eventually lead to Derek Slater, another rap artist whom Stacy is attempting to turn against her husband by exercising an escape clause in his contract, and Bust-A-Cap, a well dressed, well educated, eloquent gentleman outside of his rap artist persona. Scully plays several tapes showing that Maluga is setting up Derek and planning to murder both him and Bust-A-Cap, which he appreciates but does not seem perturbed by, having been targeted with violence before. During this, Alexa undergoes surgery and slides into a coma, and is presumed guilty by the media forces arrayed against her. After learning that the "Dark Angel" really is an undercover officer on long term assignment, he begs that the department attempt to dissuade the media from continuing to slander his wife, and is flatly refused. After preventing there murder at Bust-a-Cap's latest concert performance, Scully eventually winds up in Vegas, and is captured along with Derek and Bust-A-Cap, and led out into the desert to be executed. Once there, Scully notices there are three dug graves, which is unusual as only Derek and Bust-A-Cap were targeted for murder and Scully was not expected to be in Las Vegas, let alone captured. As they stand around the graves, Scully idly asks Lou Maluga when he is planning on marrying his mistress and divorcing his wife. Extremely confused by the question, Lou Maluga allows Scully, over Stacy's shrieked objections, that Stacy can't allow Lou to divorce her, as the court costs and division of property would ruin the rap label she's struggled to maintain despite her husbands repeated violent episodes and husband's bungled business practices. After pointing out the number of graves, and explaining how the third one was originally meant for Lou, a violent shootout occurs. Lou Maluga and a few of his bodyguards are killed. Stacy, after confronting Scully and explaining how this doesn't affect her plans, is shot by her bodyguard "Insane Wayne," an undercover California Sheriff's officer. After collecting all the survivors, several quickly confess that they hijacked Alexa and her car, picked up the undercover officer, and executed him with Alexa's weapon, before forcing her to confess to his murder and shooting her in the head. Wayne, having been brought into the Maluga family by the "Dark Angel" was in danger by his relationship, and so no info had been allowed out that might've cleared his wife. Scully, enraged by the LAPD for throwing his wife under the bus, agrees to not sue for character defamation and slander in exchange for not being charged or punished for his violations. Alexa, still in a persistent vegetative coma, is scheduled to be taken off life support despite Scully's strong objections. But when he attends the hospice where she is kept, he finds her body gone. Finding a fire alarm going off in the basement, Scully heads down there to find John Bodine, whom Scully had befriended after a fashion, performing an African tribal dance around Alexa's body. Believing her to have died after being taken off life support, Scully and the doctors are shocked when she spontaneously revives, and slowly begins to recuperate.