Lia and Cassie become best friends when she later moves in across the street from Lia in second grade. During the summer between fifth and sixth grades, Cassie develops bulimia in a quest to be thinner. By eighth grade, both Cassie and Lia share a goal of being the thinnest girls in their class. From then on, the two engage in a contest to see who can be the thinnest. Lia is hospitalized to treat her eating disorder during their junior year of high school. After her hospitalization, Lia becomes estranged from Cassie, who blames Lia for encouraging her own eating disorder. Nine months later (at the beginning of the novel), Cassie is found dead in a motel. The cause of death is unknown at first; an autopsy later reveals that she died from Boerhaave syndrome, a rupture of the esophagus caused by repeated vomiting. Lia learns the cause of death later, from her mother. Lia, getting a message from a motel employee named Elijah, who told her to come to the motel to meet him, goes to the scene of her friend's death. When she meets Elijah, he does not know who she is, so she gives him the name of her younger step-sister, Emma. At Cassie's wake, they meet again and finally, at the funeral, he learns Lia's real identity. During this time, Lia's weight drops from 101 pounds to 93 pounds, though she has rigged her family's bathroom scale so that her parents believe she weighs more. After her father gets back from his trip, and tells Lia she is moving in with her mother because she and he cannot get along, she goes into the bathroom and cuts deep into her skin, from her neck to just below her heart. Her step-mother Jennifer and step-sister Emma find her and take her to the hospital. After this incident, she is supposed to live with her mother, Dr. Chloe Marrigan. Dr. Marrigan feeds her and doesn't leave her side without having someone else watch her. Lia, who has been haunted throughout the book by Cassie's ghost, has a confrontation with "her" in her therapist's waiting room. She explains that to her therapist, Dr. Parker, who advises that she be committed to a psychiatric institution. Lia runs away to see Elijah and asks him to take her with him when he leaves for Mississippi, which he is planning to do the next day. Elijah agrees on the condition that Lia call her family first; Lia refuses, and Elijah tries to convince Lia that her family is trying to help her and that she should let them do so. They go to sleep, and in the morning Lia finds that he has left without her. Lia is near death and has one more conversation with Cassie's ghost, in which they talk about the good parts of being alive. Lia escapes death and goes to call her mother. The novel ends with Lia in the hospital, working toward recovery.