John is a young fourteen year old boy. He lives with his mother and his mother's boyfriend who he calls the "Man Who is Not my Father". The man abuses John by assaulting him when nobody is around. He has a friend named Billy Beezer who is skinny but eats a lot which John thinks is impossible. Andy is "slow" and doesn't understand the phrases many teens use. John also has a crush on a girl named Gloria but he calls her Glory Hallelujah. Billy also has a crush on her. The book begins with Billy being arrested for stealing an egg roll from a Chinese store. John sees this as a chance to ask Gloria out which he does by sending her a note which she eats but explains to him it was so the teacher didn't see. She accepts and goes to a basketball game with him. Billy goes also and calls John a terrible friend. A riot occurs in the gym and John and Gloria escape. Gloria brings John home and "seduces" him until John escapes from her and her angry father but leaves clothes and money which he took from the "Man who is not my Father's" drawer. The man finds out and takes John to do some "business". John is forced to carry TVs into a truck. It is also learned that the man deals in transporting stolen TVs. The man also tells John that him and his mother are getting married. In school; Gloria humiliates John, Billy picks on him and he is in trouble for saying rude thought about a teacher out loud and making her cry. Soon John is asked to a dance by a girl named Violet or "Violent". He goes with her and Billy forgives John because he likes a new girl now and Violet stands up for John against Gloria and her new boyfriend. When John goes home, the "Man who is not my Father" is drunk and assaults John but this time he rebels. Him and the man fight. The man gets the better of the fight and beats John senseless. He is saved by his music teacher who had seen John's signs of abuse and came to check up on him. John wakes up in the hospital and his friends and mother are there. His mother wishes he told her before and that she loves him and that he is her flesh and blood. John feels that his mother really knows him and feels loved. He then attends the school's music concert where he cries at the end at a music piece he learned in class, because he finally figures out that its a love story.