The novel Zorachus is chock full of sex and violence. It depicts several gory scenes of death, murder, war, and torture. It depicts in equally explicit fashion many scenes of sex. Very little of the sex is of the standard variety. The novel features as its protagonist the eponymous Mancdaman Zorachus, a powerful sorcerer who at the beginning of the novel was in his early 30s and had become a Seventh Level Adept of the Sharajnaghi Order. He was acknowledged by teachers and peers alike to be the most puissant sorcerer in the world. After his elevation to Seventh Level Adept, Zorachus learned from his teachers that he was the son of Mancdaman Zancharthus, former ruler of the city of Khymir, in the north. Khymir was, and always has been, the most evil city in the world, a bottomless pit of vice and temptation. Emissaries had come from Khymir to ask Zorachus to come back to his father's city and help the current regime rule the place. Zorachus was asked by his Sharajnaghi teachers to go to Khymir and, under the guise of doing the will of the ruling order and enjoying the pleasures of Khymir, prevent Khymir's evil from spilling out and making victims of nearby peoples. Zorachus was a very moral man, having been raised by the Sharajnaghi. He was afraid that he would not be able to resist the temptations to lust and violence Khymir and its people, and Tchernobog, offered. However, he was eventually convinced by his friends and teachers to go. From the very start, even on the voyage by water to Khymir, the Khymirians tempted Zorachus, performing sexually in front of him and inviting him to join in. Zorachus resisted these blatantly sexual advances fairly easily. He had a more difficult time not killing his Khymirian hosts to wipe out their evil. For instance, when the Khymirian ship was attacked by Kragehul pirates, Zorachus helped fight the pirates using his natural fighting ability and his battle magic. The victorious Khymirian sailors and soldiers, however, began to rape the captured Kragehul. Zorachus nearly gave into the urge to blast the rapists with the same magic he had used to blast the pirates. The magnitude and variety of the temptations only increased after Zorachus arrived in Khymir. Slavery was widespread in Khymir, and no one saw anything wrong in mistreating, torturing, raping, or killing slave and freeman alike, so long as the victim was of lower class than the victimizer. Zorachus was very strong-willed, but even he began to despair under the constant onslaught of horrible experiences he was forced to witness, all the while pretending he saw nothing wrong. In the end, Zorachus' bloodlust; his repressed desire for the Asa, wife of his Kragehul friend Halfdan; his loathing for Asa's lesbian, unfaithful relationship with the female slave Leahkalah; and his self-hatred; all combined to convince him that every human was evil. Zorachus led a coup d'etat, using baleful, evil, forbidden magic to seize absolute power in Khymir. He personally killed dozens of people in horrifying ways, completely abandoning all his former moral precepts. This was just as Tchernobog had planned, turning a good and moral magician-warrior to evil.