Allende's story is split into six parts, each part dealing with one stage of Diego's life, with the last part serving as the epilogue. The novel chronicles Diego's formation as well as his origins as Zorro. He goes to America to find his dream. Captain Alejandro de la Vega, a seasoned Spanish soldier, is sent to the San Gabriel mission run by Padre Mendoza, an experienced Franciscan priest, due to a series of savage attacks at other missions. Led by a warrior chief named Chief Gray Wolf, the Indians have set their sights on the San Gabriel mission, the most successful mission in Alta California. Alejandro, aided by Padre Mendoza and a few Indian converts, defeat the Indians, and are successful in hurting Chief Gray Wolf. However, as they contemplate the chief's fate, they find out she is a woman. She is Toypurnia, a young Indian woman. She recuperates in the mission with Alejandro's help. Alejandro then goes to Pedro Fages, the governor of California. Here he decides to allow Toypurnia to be a lady - in - waiting to Eulalia de Callis, Fages' rich and stubborn wife. After three years, Alejandro meets Toypurnia, who was renamed Regina, at a lavish party to celebrate the arrival of Pedro Fages, who has earlier resigned from his post and was on his way to Mexico with Eulalia. He proposes marriage to Regina and she accepts. The two are wed by Padre Mendoza, and Fages then bequeaths a large acreage of land to Alejandro. He then retires from the military and becomes a hacienda owner, and later an alcalde. Regina befriends Ana, a young convert who is assigned to care for Regina. Ana's birthing was smooth, Regina was not, as the baby was crosswise in her womb. The pregnancy was so complicated that she spent fifty hours in labor, and required Padre Mendoza to deliver the baby, whom Regina names Diego, and who is baptized on the spot. Diego and Bernardo, Ana's son, become close friends. Since Ana breastfed Diego while his mother was convalescing from her pregnancy, as well as Bernardo, the boys became milk brothers. The rest of the chapter deals with significant events in Diego and Bernardo's life, and the early formation into what they are today. At an early age, Diego and Bernardo share an unusual childhood. They capture a live bear using the sleeping potion of White Owl, once used to amputate a wounded priest, and a frightened, bullied, obese boy named Garcia. Together, Diego and Bernardo undergo Indian training, while Alejandro teaches fencing to Diego, who passes it on to Bernardo. When the de la Vega hacienda is attacked by pirates, the boys have their own traumatizing experiences: Diego and his mother attempt to defend the house, but are defeated, and Bernardo, hidden in the servants' room, is forced to watch his mother be brutally raped and murdered by the pirates. This causes Bernardo to be mute, as a sign of mourning. Bernardo is sent to the Indian tribe of Regina to recover, and soon strikes a friendship with Night Lightning, which blossoms into a romance, and Diego is forced to remain at home to recover after suffering a few broken ribs during the attack. Diego and Bernardo then undergo a test to prove their maturity and to find their spirit guide, a totemic animal which would guide the boys' future. Bernardo's spirit guide is a horse, in the form of Tornado, a motherless colt which Bernardo encounters and cares for. Diego's is a fox or 'zorro' in the form of a fox who saves his life. After the events in the forest, Alejandro, oblivious to the Indian training Diego has been receiving, receives a letter from Tomas de Romeu, an old friend of Alejandro and currently residing in France - occupied Spain. He invites Alejandro to let Diego go to Barcelona, to receive a more formal schooling, and to learn fencing under the famed maestro Manuel Escalante. Alejandro reluctanly allows Diego to go, and Diego takes Bernardo with him. They leave after their fifteenth birthday, where Regina surprisingly organizes an extravagant party, given her own aversion to parties, and Bernardo has an intimate moment with Light-in-the-Night Diego and Bernando travel to Spain but first sail to Panama City where they learn to be sailors, magic and also acrobatics by swinging through the ships's rigging. Upon leaving Panama City, Diego meets a sea captain, Santiago de Leon, who opens his eyes to new ways of thinking and questions his views on religion, patriotism and justice. Diego spies a golden medallion which the captain wears around his neck but is reluctant to acknowledge to Diego. Upon arriving in Barcelona, Diego and Bernardo live with Don Tomas de Romeu. De Romeu is a French sympathizer who has two young daughters, the beautiful Juliana and the tomboyish Isabel. Diego is immediately struck by Juliana and decides to pursue her romantically. He also begins to study fencing with Maestro Manuel Escalante. Diego's main adversary for the affections of Juliana is Rafael Moncada, the nephew of Dona Eulalia. Moncada utilizes trickery to gain Juliana's favor which Diego and Bernardo investigate. The rivalry escalates upon Moncada's abuse of Bernardo which Diego takes exception and issues a challenge to a duel. Moncada and Diego arrange to have the duel with pistols and Moncada is allowed to take the first shot which hits Diego in the arm. Diego then fires into the ground with his shot. Diego is satisfied with the result having humiliated Moncada. Bernardo and Diego befriend a group of gypsies in Barcelona and Diego begins an affair with a gypsy woman named Amalia. Both boys also perform in a circus act with the gypsies where Diego begins to assemble a costume to disguise himself from the high society people in attendance. After one of Diego's fencing lessons with Escalante, he learns the secret of La Justicia, a secret organization devoted to justice. Members of La Justicia are identified by the gold medallions which they wear around their necks. Diego recognizes Escalante's medallion as being the same as that of de Leon's. Escalante invites Diego to join La Justicia and they begin to train for his initiation test where Diego is tested physically in his fighting against members of La Justicia. Diego passes the test and joins La Justicia and takes the name Zorro meaning 'fox'. Diego learns that Amalia has been arrested and is being held prisoner. Diego, dressed as Zorro, sneaks into the palace to convince Le Chavalier Duchamp, Napoleon's emissary to Spain, to release the hostages which he does under threat of his daughter's life. Moncada and Diego continue their pursuit of Juliana with neither gaining ground. One night, Juliana and Isabel are attacked on the street when Moncada appears and defends them so that they can escape. Everyone is relieved and grateful except for Isabel who recognizes the attackers as being employed by Moncada. Diego confirms this when he visits the gypsies. In an effort to expose Moncada, Diego convinces Amalia to reveal Moncada's scheme to Juliana. Sometime later, Diego warns the gypsies that they are in danger of arrest and they flee the city. The political landscape changes as Napoleon is exiled and Duchamp leaves Spain. Arrests are made including Maestro Escalante who is held in a local barracks. Diego convinces La Justicia to stage a rescue. Diego spikes liquor with his sleeping draught and then gifts it to the soldiers of the barracks. After they have had a chance to drink the drug, Zorro and the other members of La Justicia enter the barracks and rescue Escalante. After which the members scatter and disband. Don de Romeu is also arrested as a French sympathizer and is held in the more secure La Ciudadela. Juliana goes to Moncada and asks him to use his influence to release her father. He agrees on the condition that she marry him and she agrees. Several days later Moncada returns and informs Juliana that he was unable to secure a release. Isabel and Diego approach Eulalia and ask her to intervene. She declines but offers to buy de Romeu's property before it is seized to allow the girls an opportunity to leave the country and also Eulalia will arrange for a visit to their father. Juliana agrees to the terms. The girls then visit their father who signs the papers and comes to peace with his impending execution. He also reveals that Moncada was the one who denounced him and is responsible for his arrest. Following the execution, Moncada visits Juliana who agrees to meet him. Moncada offers protection to Juliana in the hope that she will either marry him or become his mistress. She demands that he provide compensation for the loss of her father. He instead attacks Juliana before Diego sees this and begins to fight him. The two men fight until Moncada is subdued and left in a secret closet with de Romeu kept his contraband materials. The girls and Diego decide to leave the city and head for the Americas. The money from Eulalia, converted to gems, is sewn into their clothing and they leave their home to journey to California. Diego and the girls decide to leave Barcelona and travel on foot dressed as pilgrims. They decide to leave from an Atlantic port as they will be less likely to be recognized there. During their travels they rely upon the kindness of the local people to provide shelter and food. The journey takes many months. After several months of travel, Diego meets up with the gypsies who agree to let Diego travel with them to the port. The gypsies require that the girls live in the way of the gypsies which requires strict separation from the men. Diego, who had viewed the trek as an opportunity to become more intimate with Juliana was discourage by these restrictions but abided them anyway. They reached the port where Diego met his old shipmates and was reintroduced to Captain de Leon who agreed to take them on board. It is when the ship reaches Cuba that the ship is attacked by a pirate crew lead by Jean Lafitte. The ship is taken and Diego and the girls are taken hostage. Lafitte takes them to his home in Louisiana where they await a ransom from Alejandro de la Vega to arrive. During this time, Juliana becomes smitten with Lafitte until she learns that he is married to a Creole woman named Catherine who she never sees. Diego begins gambling in New Orleans in an attempt to win enough money to buy their freedom. The girls, however, use their jewels and gems to buy the freedom of slaves Lafitte is selling at auction. Lafitte tells her that the jewels are more than enough for the slaves and would also buy their freedom, which he grants. Then he returns the jewels back to her, an indication of his love for her. Catherine's mother sees this and takes her to Catherine who is revealed to have died five weeks earlier, unbeknownst to Lafitte. Catherine's mother tells Juliana that Catherine has chosen Juliana to marry Lafitte and raise her child, Pierre. Juliana agrees to marry Lafitte and Diego and Isabel are freed. ===Part Six, Epilogue (Alta California, 1840)===