Police Public

 Senior Police Inspector Shah Nawaz Khan's investigation into the apparent suicidal death of Mrs. Karuna Sharma, is interrupted when he is transferred to another region. The new officer, Mahar Singh Grewal, thinks that Karuna has committed suicide, and does nothing. Karuna's dad, Ram Swarup, sister, Usha, and brother, Shyam, agitate, and as a result the matter is entrusted to CBI Officer Jagmohan Azaad. Will Jagmohan be able to prove that Karuna's death was foul play and open up a Pandora's's box, or will he quietly close the file without any further investigation. Mr. Ram Swarup is a retired schoolteacher of modest means. His family consists of his two young daughters, Karuna and Usha. Fortunately for Ram Swarup, Mr. Sharma an eminent businessman in their vicinity brings forth a proposal of marriage of his son Arun with Karuna. Ram Swarup considers himself lucky to be associated with the influential family but Mr. Sharma had different plans on his mind. Sharma's cunningness surfaces when he comes to know of some land that Ram Swarup has kept aside in Delhi for his second daughter's marriage. He convinces Ram Swarup that he needs it temporarily to serve as a guarantee for his new business venture, but later justifies it as dowry for his son's wedding. The situation takes a turn for the worst, when one morning Karuna is found dead. Sharma and his friend an aspiring politician Tiwari try to frame it as suicide but the investigating officer Shahnawaz Khan and Karuna's family suspect a foul play. Amidst investigations, Shahnawaz Khan is mysteriously transferred and is replaced by a dishonest and corrupt police officer Maha Singh Garhwal, who loses no time in suppressing the case with Sharma and his friends. To overcome police corruption, Ram Swarup and his daughter Usha with the help of Shyam, appeal to high judicial powers and consequently C.B.I. officer Jagmohan Azad is send to investigate Karuna's case. Will inspector Azad get them justice? Will he find out what really happened on that fateful night?

