Police Academy 5

 The old captain Lassard, chief of the police academy, goes to Florida to receive an award. In the city arrives also the cynic captain Harris who wants to take Lassard's job. Harris wants to place himself in a favourable light in front of the high military hierarchy but, at the airport, Lassard exchange his bag with another one.... Commandant Eric Lassard, the head of the police academy, has reached mandatory retirement age, much to the delight of Captain Thaddeus Harris, who is planning to take over Lassard's job. Lassard and a handful of the Academy's former students travel to Miami for a special ceremony where Lassard is to be honored as the Policeman of the Year at a convention. Along for the trip to Miami are Moses Hightower, Eugene Tackleberry, Larvell Jones, Debbie Callahan, Laverne Hooks, Tommy "House" Conklin, and Commissioner Henry Hurst, along with Harris and his right hand man Proctor. A jewel thief named Manny has smuggled stolen diamonds in a camcorder. Manny's suitcase is accidentally switched with Lassard's identical suitcase at the airport in Miami. This gets Lassard and Harris kidnapped by Manny and his two henchmen Julio and Pete, with everyone, including Lassard's nephew, Sergeant Nick Lassard, in pursuit. Sun, fun and babes in shades. Where else but Miami Beach? Buffoons, blockheads and party-hearty animals. Who else but the Police Academy gang? In this fifth funfest, our heroes jet to Miami for a convention honoring beloved Cmdt. Lassard. But crime doesn't take a vacation, even if our police favorites do. Lassard is kidnapped. And not even the lure of limbo beach parties will stop the intrepid troopers' uproarious rescue attempts. How determined are they? As determined as a guy rasslin' an Okefenokee Swamp 'gator. Make that 10 guys and gals. Deploying the laugh weaponry are returning rookies Hightower, Jones, Tackleberry, Hooks, House, and Callahan, plus malicious meddlers Harris and Proctor. And on board as the ensemble's newest go-getters are Kate and Nick. The Police Academy misfits travel to Miami, Florida for their academy's commanding officer, Lassard, to receive a prestigious lifetime award pending his retirement, which takes a turn involving a group of jewel thieves after their stolen loot that Lassard unknowingly has in his possession.

