Poncho Sanchez

 This sixty-minute documentary project was born out of Poncho Sanchez's visit to the University of New Mexico in April 2002. While at UNM, Mr. Sanchez conducted two workshops and performed at the Sunshine Theatre in Downtown Albuquerque, all of which was documented by filmmaker and Latin jazz fan Arcie Chapa. Ms Chapa received funding from UNM's Center for Regional studies for the production of a 30 minute documentary. But after viewing the footage that was shot during his brief visit to New Mexico, Ms Chapa's enthusiasm for the project intensified and so did the funding. Dr. Tobias Duran, the Executive Director of the Center for Regional Studies, agreed that a feature length documentary was a good idea so he put forth the necessary funds to produce the film. Dr. Duran has written extensively on U.S. Social History in the Southwest borderlands region in the 19th and 20th centuries. He is also the Executive producer for several documentaries that address social, political and musical issues in the Southwest. With funding secured, Chapa contacted long-time friend Duane Conder who is based in Los Angeles and asked him to be director of photography and to add his special touch to the edit. During the course of developing the grant proposal, Chapa came across only a handful of films that feature the Latin jazz genre and artists. Machito, Roots of Rhythm, and Calle 54 stand out among the few that have been produced. While these are all excellent films, they either do not feature some of the important contemporary Latin jazz artist or the evolution of Latin Jazz. The well-publicized "Jazz" documentary by Ken Burns did not include how important and influential Latin Music has been on American jazz. Poncho Sanchez features the evolution of Latin jazz, and it's influence on other forms of American music. Poncho's life story provides the spine of the film, However the film also branches out to show the origins of Latin jazz. The film includes historic film clips, old family album photographs. There is no narration, instead the film hangs on the thoughts and comments of Poncho Sanchez as well as other family members, musicians, celebrities and ethnomusicologists. Poncho's accessible and highly enjoyable music moves the film along from beginning to end.

