Possum Hunter

 Four boys (School Pals) decide to go camping at a hut in the forest before heading off to start college. They tramp into the forest and discover that the hut has been burned down, while looking for something else to sleep in they meet a deranged Possum Hunter in the bush who offers them shelter in his hut. They take up his offer stay in his hut for the night and have a drink with him. Later that night they find a severed hand hidden in a box at the back of the hut and suspect that Hunter might possibly have killed someone and is hiding form the police. The four boys decide to play it cool and raise no alarms but to get out of there in the morning. Morning comes and the boys try to make a hasty retreat but the Hunter gets suspicious of their change of attitude towards him and then discovers that one of them (the boy's) has taken an old bone of his and accuses them of stealing from him, Rob try's to smooth over the situation but gets smacked across the face by the but of his rifle, Hamish rescues Rob from the Hunter but the hunter declares that he is going to give them the length of time of two cigarettes before coming to hunt them down. The boys make a break for it and try and get as far away from the hunter as possible. The hunter finishes his second smoke and the hunt is now on. Now it is a race for the boys to get back to their car with their lives or end up dead in the forest. The boys try and run as fast as they can but one of them trips and sprains his ankle, which leaves the others struggling to keep pace while carrying him. Soon the Hunter catches up to them with his skill and local knowledge of the forest and is trying to shot them down. Despite the boy's jump over step cliff and hide behind a tree truck in the stream below. While seeking cover behind the tree trunk and out of sight of the Hunter, they devise a plan to get back to car. They decide to make a break and run for it. The Hunter can see them from the top of the cliff and takes aim, realizing he is to far up, he jumps down the cliff and try's to chase them. He trips on the way down, dropping his gun and tumbles down to creek. This gives the boys enough time to make a break and get within sight of the car in an empty car park. Hamish decides to brave it walks to the car himself. Once getting to car and thinking the coast is clear, he summons the others to make their break. They do so and then discover once next to the car that the Possum Hunter is hiding behind a tree close by. He points the gun at them and tells them to line up in a single file. The boys do so and as the Hunter prepares to shoot them, the boys make a surprise attack on him and wrestle the hunter to the ground and get his gun from him. Amongst the panic and commotion, and one of the boys shots the Hunter in the chest and then in the heart. The Hunter dies and then there is a new dilemma of deciding what to do with his body- do they bury him in the bush and say nothing or go to the police and risk being tried for murder? After much debate they decide to bury the Hunter the bush. This weighs heavy on the conscious and walk away from the forest scarred forever with a secret they can never tell anybody.

