Postales

 "Postales" (Postcards) is a multicultural story of innocence and understanding despite the barriers of language, poverty, cultural confusion and a rapidly globalizing world. In the streets of Cusco, Peru, the lives of an American businessman and his family become irreversibly intertwined with those of a rural Peruvian family struggling day to day to survive. As the construction of a new hotel is finalized, both families are faced with the realities of our shifting world and the unexpected encounters that will change them forever. In the ancient cobblestone streets of Cuzco, Peru, a postcard-selling street kid, Pablo, encounters a 12-year old American tourist girl, Mary. Her fascination with the Andean culture and his desire to understand a life beyond his own helps them transcend the language barrier. As their innocent curiosity grows into young love, they soon find it isn't the only connection they share. In the ancient cobblestone streets of Cuzco, Peru, 12-year-old Pablo sells postcards to tourists in the main plaza while his brother Jano, supports the family through petty street crime. Pablo questions his world when he encounters Mary, who unbeknownst to him is the daughter of an American businessman planning to develop a hotel on the land where his family lives. When told they will be forced to leave the only home they've known, Jano swears vengeance and convinces his younger brother to help him rob the American father. In the fathers' wallet Pablo discovers a photo of Mary. Troubled by his actions, Pablo searches the city for Mary to ease his guilt and return the stolen wallet. After finding Mary, Pablo convinces her to sneak away with him to explore the Inca ruins. Mary's distraught parents return to the hotel after losing her, only to discover their teenage daughter Elizabeth in bed with Jano. Mary's father quickly recognizes Jano as the thug who robbed him. After a scuffle, Mary appears in the hotel room with her father's returned wallet. As the American family leaes Cuzco and the Peruvian family leaves their home, both are forever changed, while Pablo and Mary share a new-found cultural understanding. In the ancient cobblestone streets of Cuzco, Peru, a postcard-selling street kid,Pablo, encounters a 12-year old American tourist girl, Mary. Her fascination with the Andean culture and his desire to understand a life beyond his own helps them transcend the language barrier. As their innocent curiosity grows into young love, they soon find it isn't the only connection they share.

