Prahaar

 Prahaar is the story of Major Chavan, a tough and stern soldier, trained to destroy the enemy. He can see the enemy on our borders but is unaware of the invisible enemy within ourselves. When one of Major's Commandos - Peter D'Souza is killed, he is shown the harsh reality revolving around us, the enemy is within ourselves. The battlefield changes and Major Chavan makes his final attack on the enemy within this crumbling society. This is a story about an idealistic and patriotic army officer, who is shocked to see that the country he has fought for is going to the dogs. He sees politicians and thugs as worse than any outside enemy, because they are eating away at his beloved country. When one of his soldiers (crippled in action), is brutally killed by street thugs, and the police show apathy, he takes it upon himself to curb the situation. however, this is not an action thriller like 'Rambo', etc. This is a mature, thought-provoking examination of society and the individual. Peter D'Souza lives in a small town in India. He is an idealistic and honest young man, and wants to serve his country by joining the army. He enlists in the Maratha Light Infantry Division, and soon undergoes vigorous training under the hands of Major Chauhan. After the training, Peter and a group of commandos are assigned to combat terrorists who had hijacked a bus full of passengers. The commandos daringly rescue the passengers, however, Peter is gravelly wounded and loses his leg in this tactical assault. He is honorably discharged from the army, and goes home to help his father run a small corner store. Subsequently, Major Chauhan receives an invitation to attend the marriage of Peter with his long-time girlfriend, Shirley, which he decides to accept. Upon arrival in the town, Chauhan finds out that there is to be no marriage as Peter is dead. Chauhan is further shocked to find out that Peter's death was a homicide, as Peter was killed by a enraged gangsters who were unable to extort money from him. Chauhan finds out that the local police are corrupt and unable to tackle the gangster problem. So Chauhan decides to avenge Peter's death, not realizing that he, himself, may not live to tell this tale.

