Prem Rog

 Orphaned at a very young age and adopted by his uncle, a Poojari, and aunt, Premvati, Devdhar lives a poor lifestyle with them and their daughter, Radha. Poojari works for Bade Thakur and his family and prepares astrological charts and organizes prayers, and asks him for financial assistance so that Devdhar can go to Bombay and study, which is approved. Years later Devdhar has matured, returns home so that Radha could get married. He meets with and falls in love with Bade Thakur's paternal niece, Manorama, his childhood friend. She likes him too, but is very naive about love and intimacy. Radha gets married to a much older man and moves out, while Manorama's marriage is arranged with Kunwar Narendra Pratap Singh. The wedding takes place with great pomp and ceremony, and a heartbroken Devdhar leaves the village to return to Bombay. A few months later he meets with Radha, who is now pregnant, and also decides to visit his uncle and aunt. This is where he will get the shock of his life when he finds out that Narendra is no more, and Manorama is forced to live the life of a Hindu widow i.e. - one simple meal a day, no footwear, simple white garb, and is regarded as a ill-omen by the rest of the villagers. What Devdhar does not know is that Manorama also carries a dark secret - which if revealed will bring death and bloodshed to this small region. Devdhar is a poor orphan who in his childhood had a magnetic friendship with Manorama who is the only daughter of the rich and powerful Thakur. The benevolent Thakur helped Deodhar to go to the city for higher studies. Now after eight years Deodhar comes back to his village and Manorama is no longer a young girl. After meeting her, Deodhar has falls in love with her, but due to family status difference he is unable to express his love for her. Later a chain of events lead to Manorama being married to a rich and handsome Thakur and is widowed, and is returned back to her parental home. When Deodhar comes to know the situation, he takes it upon himself to rebuild Manorama's life and bring a smile back to her face. Deodhar was adamant to revive her faith in life and love. Little did he know that in doing so he would have to face the wrath of the powerful Thakurs armed with aged old traditions and customs in their favour. Manorama (a very young Padmini Kolhapure), is the darling daughter of a rich family, whose patriarch is the all-powerful Thakur (an aging Shammi Kapoor). She is coddled, and pampered and her every whim is answered. Deodhar (Rishi Kapoor) is a poor orphan in the village, who is able to further his education in the big city with the Thakur's help. He returns after his studies, to find that Manorama has grown up into a beautiful young lady, and falls in love with her. He is unable to declare his love for her however, because of the apparent class-distinction. Manorama, of course unaware and child-like treats him as always, as her child-hood friend. Enter the handsome and rich Kumar Narendra Pratap Singh (Vijayendra Ghatge) as Manorama's prospective bridegroom. She is soon married and off to her husband's home, leaving Deodhar in silent despair...

