Prime

 In colorful, bustling modern-day Manhattan, Rafi Gardet, a beautiful 37-year-old photography producer reeling from a recent divorce, meets David Bloomberg, a handsome 23-year-old painter recently out of college. Rafi's therapist, Dr. Lisa Metzger, who is working to help Rafi overcome her fears of intimacy, finds out that Rafi's new lover is--unfortunately for Lisa--her only son, David. Both David and Rafi must contend with their 14-year age gap, vastly different backgrounds and the demands of David's traditional mother. Despite their intense attraction, the charmed couple soon realizes that vastly different ages and backgrounds create much conflict. A Jewish hip-hop lover and closet painter who still lives with his grandparents, David has little in common with Rafi--a non-practicing Catholic from a wealthy, broken family who travels in the sophisticated, high-end world of fashion. Hunky, witty New York would be-painter David Bloomberg falls in love with an older woman, Raphaelle 'Rafi' Gardet. They ignore for long David's ma, Dr. Lisa Metzger, who discourages his affair with an older gentile, also encouraged Rafi to get over her divorce by dating a young stud, but tries to make her reconsider once she sneakily realizes it's her own firstborn. Family tension drives David, who thus faces his own sense of Jewishness, out of his grandparents' home, where he was materially spoiled. But moving in with Rafi means domestic questions, while she pushes to get him launched in in artistic career. In New York, after a troubled process of divorce, the thirty-seven years old Raphael "Rafi" Gardet meets the twenty-three years old Jew David Bloomberg in a session of "Blow-up", and they start seeing each other. Rafi tells details of her relationship with David to her psychoanalyst Lisa Metzger, who stimulates Rafi to go on and forget the difference of ages. When it turns out it is actually Lisa's son that Rafi is dating, Lisa faces an ethical and personal dilemma. Prime is a sophisticated, character comedy set in New York City about Rafi, a recently divorced 37-year-old career woman from Manhattan, and what happens when Dave, a talented 23-year-old painter from the Upper West Side, falls in love with her. The film looks at love from everyone's point-of-view, friends, relatives and Rafi's therapist Lisa, and follows all who come apart, and some who pull it together, when two people fall in love.

