Prince of Darkness

 A sinister secret has been kept in the basement of an abandoned Los Angeles church for many years. With the death of a priest belonging to a mysterious sect, another priest opens the door to the basement and discovers a vat containing a green liquid. The priest contacts a group of physics graduate students to investigate it. Unfortunately, they discover that the liquid contains the essence of Satan himself, and they also discover that he will release HIS father - an all-powerful Anti-God! The liquid later comes to life itself, turning some of the students into zombies as the Devil comes forward to release his father. Will these students be able to stop him? When the guardian priest of an abandoned church in Los Angeles dies, Father Loomis finds a diary and a key, opens the door of the basement and finds a cylinder with a gruesome green fluid. The priest contacts Professor Howard Birack in the local university and he invites a team of students to research the findings and translate manuscripts. The group discovers that the liquid is the essence of evil, actually Satan's remains, and has been kept locked in the church for centuries. Their research awakes the son of the Devil and when the student Susan Cabot gets close to the container, she drinks a jet of the green liquid, transforming in a living dead. Susan spreads the liquid among her friends, increasing the army of evil zombies. While the group is attacked inside the church by the zombies, derelicts surround the church trapping them inside, and Satan tries to bring his father to the world. The son of the Devil has been kept captive by the church for thousands of years. Now he is breading free. It is up to a bunch of collage students to find a way to stop him. A priest/a millionaire dies and leaves a diary and a casket containing a key. Another priest reads the diary and after visiting a deserted church discovers a large glass tube containing some kind of green swirling liquid locked away. The priest tells a Professor friend of the discovery and the priest, the professor and a couple of students stay in the church to research the tube. Their discovery leads to the fact that the tube contains the Devil's son, and a prophecy that "when the sleeper awakens the son will release the father." The tube is locked from the inside and the sleeper is beginning to stir. The students/priest/professor now have a battle to stop the Devil from being released but some of them are being taken over to aid the Son's cause...

