Projekt Huemul

 Towards the end of the Second World War, German physicists were doing everything possible to build an atomic bomb, and other "secret weapons", before the United States in order to stop the imminent fall of the Third Reich. But Hitler had expelled Einstein from Germany, and his own scientists could not do it. Strangely, Argentina, which had been neutral during the war and thanks to that had accumulated big reserves, was now importing scientists and technicians from the extinct Third Reich. The goal orders from a new leader did not have its first "A" bomb yet, Argentina was already working on the development of nuclear energy through a unique and innovative method "Nuclear controlled Fusion" By the use of this method, Argentina would be able to stock up energy unlimitedly and vastly more powerful than with the American one. Was it possible for a country like Argentina, which had declared war on the Axis a few weeks before its defeat, to be permitted by triumphant powers to develop an independent nuclear energy plan that nobody had outside the United States? Was it tolerable that Argentina's increase in atomic technology were owed to the cooperation of German scientists from the extinct Third Reich? Was it possible that the "Third Position", as proclaimed by General Peron, equidistant from capitalism and communism, covered up a "Fourth Reich" in South America? Why did official US propaganda attempt to identify and relate Peron to the Nazis? Did Argentina's nuclear plan also include the development of an atomic bomb, the one Adolf Hitler failed to manufacture? The fact is, that at the beginning of 1951, Argentina announced the world the success of its first secret nuclear plan rising not only local press interest but also international In the Pink House, President J.D. Peron together with the Austrian Scientist Ronald Richter, stated that on February 16th 1951, in the remote Huemul Island, in the Argentine Patagonia, the first controlled nuclear fusion of history was performed. Peron was daydreaming about a nuclear propelled submarine made in Argentina How about a blue and white atomic bomb...?

