Pumhaeng zero

 He's the only son of a mother who runs a hair salon while also being the "best fighter" of Moonduk High School. His name's Joong-pil, and his days are really tough. But the most important part of his day is going to school. Firstly, to meet the expectations of his followers and to frequently make his presence known, he has to fight other groups trying to take over his position. He also has to look after the rooftop of the school building which is used as their hideout. Adding to this, he has to look after a rollerskating field, a big hangout for kids, and he's even in the dirty magazines trade at school to earn some extra cash. There's nothing that Joong-pil doesn't have his hands on already. And under Joong-pil's protection and threats, he maintains a peaceful relationship with Dan-gun's gang, who holds the number two spot at school. But one day, Cupid's arrow unexpectedly strikes Joong-pil's heart who before had nothing to worry about and fear. It's Min-hee, the prettiest girl of the neighborhood girls high school, Jeonglan. But not long before his pink puppy love starts, his cozy life becomes threatened by a newcomer. One day, Joong-pil hears that a transfer student named Sang-man suddenly appeared like a gushing storm and wants to take over the school. Not only the students, but even his righthand man Soo-dong try to incite a fight between Joong-pil and Sang-man, which would become a legend in itself. But strangely enough, Joong-pil seems to avoid getting into a fight with Sang-man. But two kings can't exist in one land, and the showdown draws closer. Meanwhile, the leader of the "Five Princesses Gang", Na-young, who has a big crush on Joong-pil finds out that Min-hee is close to him and threatens her by all means. But instead of being the model student Na-young thought she was, Na-young realizes that she has a strong rival on her hands when Min-hee shows off her undaunted attitude. She learns that she's the best student and worst troublemaker of Jeonglan Girls High School. Two different girls who became rivals over the same guy start to compete for Joong-pil's heart in their own way. As time goes by, the situation gets worse as Dan-gun's gang sides with Sang-man. Joong-pil realizes he's in a tight spot. In the meantime, Na-young who has a grueling fight with Sang-man to protect Joong-pil fails drastically and comes back almost half-alive. Now, the fight against Sang-man to determine the strongest fighter at Munduk High School seems inevitable. At last, the countdown to the final fight begins as Joong-pil fights to hold his throne.

