Qahar

 Crime is at its highest stage in a small locality all because of a small-time goon who calls himself Krishna and his pal, the big built and arrogant, Raja. Commissioner Kapoor is in charge of nabbing both goons but to no avail, frustrated of the goons he decides to summon, stern and strict police inspector Amar Kapoor. Amar does manage to arrest Krishna, but found out that Krishna is his brother and Raja is fighting a corrupt society for the brutal murder and rape of his sweetheart, Neelam and her family. The three men now join forces to destroy the evil Velji Patel and his gang. A young woman, Neelam bear witness to the brutal killings of her brother and sister-in-law by a gangster named Velgi. When Velgi and his men find out that Neelam is going to testify against them in court they put up all available methods to kill her but a man named Raja fell in love with Neelam and will leave no stone unturned in ensuring Neelam's safety. Raja meets up with Krishna and they both finds that they have one thing in common - honesty - so Krishna too join with Raja to fight on the road to justice. But one day when Neelam gets molested by Velgi and Raja is shot by a cop Amar, Krishna's life turns to violence and revenge so much that Amar and the police force have a wanted bulletin for Krishna. But what Amar does not know is that Krishna is his long-lost brother. Amar Kapoor (Sunil Shetty) is an honest and diligent police inspector, and the only son of Commissioner Kapoor (Raj Babbar), assigned to investigate and bring charges against Krishna (Aman Kohli), and his friend, Raja (Sunny Deol). During the course of his investigation, he does locate both Krishna and Raja, but discovers that Krishna is his brother, and Raja is involved in fighting the very forces of corruption, namely Velji Patel (Paresh Rawal), his brother Nageshwar Patel (Kiran Kumar), and a corrupt Police Inspector Maroo (Gulshan Grover), who are all responsible for the rape and brutal murder of Neelam (Sonali Bendre), the love of Raja, that he and his dad have a duty to eliminate. Will they join forces to combat the evil-doers or will fate have something else in store for them?

