Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak

 Both Dhanraj Singh and Randhir Singh are two bitter and old time enemies. They faced a disastrous situation when there children, Raj and Rashmi falls deeply in love. They openly declares there hatred for one another and will do anything in there power even kill but they will not accept there children's choice. But Raj and Rashmi is dedicated to there love and is not willing to accept the fact that there dads are enemies. Traditional rivals, both in business and underground activities, Randhir Singh and Dhanraj Singh, are faced with a dilemma - namely their children, Rashmi and Raj, are in love. Both openly declare their opposition to this love, and will do anything in their power to prevent the two from meeting, leave alone marrying each other. Raj and Rashmi must now decide to fall in line with their respective dads' wishes, or incur their wrath by eloping. A chance encounter with Raj and Rashmi leads to love. When both families learn of there relationship, they opposed to there meeting leave alone marriage. The result is of a common old time enmity between both families, Raj and Rashmi are not willing to maintain this enmity and finds that they can't live without each other decides to elope, not knowing that eloping will engulf both lives forever. Randhir Singh and Dhanraj Singh are deadly enemies and will only ensure destruction of each other. Faith brings them to a cross road when there children, Raj and Rashmi falls in love and would like to have a romantic relationship and then marriage, but there dads are death set against this and will do anything under there wrath to prevent them from tying the knot. Dhanraj Singh's sister Madhumati and Randhir Singh's brother Ratan shares an illegitimate relationship which ends up leaving Madhumati pregnant. When Madhumati got news that Ratan is getting married to another girl she commits suicide by consuming poison. Enraged and devastated Dhanraj shoot Ratan to death on his wedding day thus both the families became death set enemies. Years later on a chance encounter Dhanraj son Raj and Randhir Singh daughter Rashmi falls head over heels in love with each other; when both the dads learn of there children's relationship they object to there marriage. Will the children comply with there dads word or will they continue with there romance by eloping?

