Queens Over Jacks

 How far would you go to help a friend? Would you lie? Steal? What if saving your friend meant throwing away a shot at true love while risking your life at the same time? Would you still do it? Benny Hines (Chris Foster) is about to answer those questions. And when he does, his life will never be the same. Until recently, Benny considered himself a good person. He wouldn't even enter a crosswalk unless the blinking light permitted it. But all that changed when his best friend (Robin Abbott) racked up a $20,000 debt to a cold-blooded loan shark (Florentino Gonzales). Now, with the deadline only a week away, Benny finds himself committing dangerous felonies, risking his life, and perhaps most frightening of all, falling in love. After a less-than-perfect restaurant robbery and a brutal "reminder" from the loan shark, Benny reluctantly joins a makeshift crime ring that includes his indebted friend, a conniving security guard (Bob Brindley), and a seductive waitress (Julie Moore). But as the group struggles to raise the money, their crimes become more dangerous, leaving Benny to question his friend's motives. Benny's fears are soon realized when Darius (the security guard) convinces Patrice, Benny's friend, to transform their small-time heists into a full-scale operation. As his best friend spirals down a path of greed and deceit, Benny confides in Heidi (the waitress), who shares his suspicions about the other group members. With the tension threatening to rip the group in half, Heidi presents Benny with a new proposition to leave his friend, but after Heidi professes her love, he changes his mind. The two embrace unaware that Patrice has overheard the entire conversation. Fearful that he cannot pay off the debt with only half of a crime ring, Patrice decides to leave town. But Darius has another idea. He devises a plan to make Benny change his mind and allow the three men to proceed with a "master" heist that will score enough cash to pay off the debt with plenty more to spare. This plan, however, is no longer small time. Each man must risk his life in a dangerous, all-or-nothing scheme. With time running out and their lives in danger, the group's secret plans and growing conflicts explode into a surprise ending, which forces Benny to make the biggest decision of his life Queens Over Jacks' intricate plot and vivid characters combine to create a story of love, deception, revenge, greed, loyalty, and choices that none of us want to make, yet somehow must.

