Qurbani

 A cabaret dancer and singer, Sheela (Zeenat Aman) has two admirers small-time thief Rajesh (Feroz Khan), and a young, eligible widower, Amar (Vinod Khanna). Both are best friends and does not know that they love the same woman. Then an enemy in the gust of Vikram Singh (Shakti Kapoor) appears and make both men life miserable by exposing each others reality to one another, hereafter Rajesh and Amar's friendship turn upside down. Rajesh is blamed for Rakka's (Amrish Puri) death and is schedule to be jailed for a lifetime. While Amar along with Sheela and his small daughter escapes to the U.K. with a lot of diamonds and money stolen by Rajesh. Will Rajesh allow Amar to betray him or will he jumped to conclusion and escapes from the police to take revenge from his perpetrators? Rajesh is an expert at breaking open safe and escape with the stolen loot; however he shares a romantic relationship with a young cabaret dancer, Shelia. One day Rajesh is caught by inspector Khan with the loot and is subsequently imprisoned, here is where he gets to meet Vikram who offers him a contract namely to kill the underworld don, Rakka for a fee. Rajesh does accept the contract and accept the fee but Shelia convinces Rajesh to give up crime which he does. And then Rajesh meets and befriend widower Amar; together they both plan a double heist in which they will rob a safe with millions, Rajesh will get caught on the robbery; will get a year and a half in prison and after that the two friends will settle down in a corner with the money but things does not go according to plan especially when Rajesh gets framed for Rakka's murder and he finds out that Amar baits him by getting him framed for the murder to enjoy his sweetheart and the money. Feroz Khan plays a thief named Rajesh who is blackmailed by villain Vikram and his evil sister Jwala into staking from crime boss Rakka. Jwala is Rakka's ex wife and has been cheated by Rakka, who has stolen her fortune and divorced her. Jwala wants revenge and will stop at nothing to get it. If Rajesh does not do the job, Vikram will kill Rajesh's lover, Sheela, who is a cabaret dancer, and Rajesh's best friend Amar's daughter Tina. The thief is continuously being stalled by Inspector Amjad Khan. Amar is an eligible young widower, who meets with beautiful Sheetal, and falls in love with her. But Sheetal does not reciprocate his advances, as she loves Rajesh. Unknown to Sheetal, Amar and Rajesh meet each other, and a strong friendship bond is formed. Rajesh would like Amar to settle in the U.K. and so they concoct a scheme whereby Amar would steal gold bars and jewellery from a safe, then phone the police, and then let Rajesh take over, get arrested, get a prison term for about 12 to 18 months, and after his release, he will join Amar abroad in U.K. Things don't go according to plan as Amar gets accused for killing Rakka, and the police construe that Rajesh has been framed by Amar, so that Amar can get Rajesh out of the way, keep all the money, as well as Sheetal, all for himself. Widower Amar lands his life in jeopardy when he seriously beats up a criminal, Vikram Singh, connotes a mysterious shooting scheme to shoot Amar but is saved by Rajesh, who promises Vikram to stake the life of crime boss Rakka in place of Amar. Hereafter Amar and Rajesh became friends but both lives are turned upside down when they find out that they love the same woman Sheela. To make matters worse Vikram has Amar's small daughter kidnapped to lure Amar and Rajesh and mysteriously put an end to there lives. Rajesh is a small-time thief who aims merely at safes with large amounts of cash. He gets caught by the police and the matter is tried in court, and he is sentenced to be penalize for a small amount of time. While in custody he meets a convict, Vikram Singh and is offered, when released with a contract to stake the life of crime boss, Rakka. He does get released and is all ready to give up his criminal ways and to start life afresh with Sheela, his girlfriend, but Vikram is now ready to strike as he would like his contract to be carried out only by Rajesh and to do this he holds Rajesh's now made friend, Amar, his daughter, Tina and Sheela as hostage and will only release them when Rajesh carries out his contract. Now Rajesh has only one choice but to carry out Vikram's contract.

