Radiata Stories

 Jack Russell, a 16 year-old boy, wants to become a knight just like his late father, Cairn. On the day that Radiata Castle are trying to recruit the people who wants to become the Radiata knights. Jack was so excited that he departs from his sister's home in Solieu Village and enters Radiata Castle to prove his might to participate of joining the knights. When the announcer calls Jack to the coliseum, he also announced that a girl named Ridley Silverlake will be dueling against Jack who thought the name Ridley was a man's name. Just as he enters the coliseum to face his opponent, Jack was confused to find out that Ridley was his first opponent. Just as Jack and Ridley duel each other, Jack was instantly defeated by Ridley with her Wild Pitch attack. Afterwards, Junzaburo announces who will be the Radiata Knights. The announcement was that Ganz Rothschild, Ridley Silverlake and for some unknown fortunate reason, Jack was selected to become one of them even though he was defeated by Ridley during the duel. Jack, along with Ridley is accompanied by Ganz as he leads his group. As they embark on various missions, one of them however, they were surrounded by a Red Orc. During the battle against the Red Orc, Ridley was badly wounded from the Red Orc's attack. Later, after Jack and Ganz defeated the Red Orc, Lord Nogueira appears and checking on Ridley's wounds, seeing that she is in a near-death state, he uses his strength and performs the ritual called human transpiritation, giving the soul of the light elf's lifeless body to Ridley to save her life. Just as Jack carrying Ridley and Ganz returns to Radiata Castle, Ridley's father Jasne, angered from the fact that Ridley was wounded blames this matter on Jack and Ganz. Some moments later, Jack and Ganz were stripped from their duty as the Radiata Knights and left the castle without Ridley. Jack and Ganz attempts to find another knights business by registering in Theater Vancoor. Jack and Ganz parts to get themselves to prove their might. The Chief of Theater Vancoor assigns Jack to challenge Gerald and proves his might. Jack did his best, but was defeated by Gerald. After that, Gerald was actually impressed with Jack's fighting performance even though Jack lost the battle and did not run away. Some time later, the receptionist Thanos has told Jack that he is the only one that was hired to join Theater Vancoor. As for Ganz, he didn't pass. Jack and Ganz parts ways to attend to their own business. Jack, by himself, must talk and may recruit over 175 characters throughout the world. Mysteries will be revealed as the story goes on. This is Jack's only chance to becoming a better knight than anyone in this world. Will he succeed?

