Ram Lakhan

 Sharda (Raakhee) vows vengeance when her husband is murdered by his two evil cousins, Bhishamber (Amrish Puri) and Bhanu (Paresh Rawal), and she and her two young sons are thrown out on the street. Those sons grow into the upstanding police officer Ram (Jackie Schroff) and the easily tempted dreamer Lakhan (Anil Kapoor). If the family is to be avenged, Ram will have to lead his brother away from the path of corruption he's strayed onto, and protect him from the influence of Bhanu and Bhishamber. Honest and upright Thakur Pratab Singh lives in a spacious bungalow with his wife Sharda, two young sons Ram and Lakhan and his evil cousins Bhishambar and Bhanu. When the Thakur protests and refuse to let Bhishambar and Bhanu carry on there illegal activities he is ruthlessly beaten and let for dead on a train line. Here on Sharda swears to avenge her husband's death and brings up her two sons Ram and Lakhan in a poor environment. Years later Ram is now an honest police inspector while Lakhan is a play-boy always has a dream of hitting it rich. When Lakhan hears there is a reward for catching a smuggler Kesariya Vilayati he single-handily captures him and present him before the police commissioner. Impress with the way how Lakhan handles himself the commissioner decides to enroll Lakhan into the police force but Lakhan refuses to work honest and accepts bribe from Bhishambar and Bhanu to let off there criminal activities thus begins to create rifts between Ram and himself. It certainly looks like Sharda's pledge for revenge will remain a long lost dream. When Thakur Pratap Singh refuses to bow down to cruel Bhishamber Nath, he is severely beaten up and left on a nearby railway track to be cut to pieces by the next passing train, leaving behind his widowed wife, Sharda, and two young sons, Ram and Lakhan. Sharda vows to avenge the death of her husband, and hopes she will achieve this when her sons grow up and ultimately destroy their father's assailants, and it is then and then only will she disperse her husband's ashes. Years later, Ram is now the Police Inspector and is a major obstacle in Bhishamber's illegal activities. While Lakhan is the fun-loving, wanna be quick millionaire, precocious young man, still living in his brother's shadow. When Lakhan finds out that there is a big reward for the capture and arrest of notorious gangster Kesariya Vilayti, he single-handedly captures him and claims the reward. Thinking police work is quite simple and easy, he applies for the job, completes his training and also becomes a police inspector like his brother. Satisfied that her sons have chosen the right path, Sharda goes on a religious pilgrimage. When she returns she finds that nothing is the same anymore, Ram and Lakhan have quarreled and no longer speak with each other; Ram lives in a their older family home, while Lakhan has moved in to a spacious bungalow, supposedly bought through bribes. While Ram continues to create obstacles for Bhishamber, Lakhan has now joined Bhishamber's gang and is on their pay-roll. Taking the current situation into account, it looks like Sharda may not live long enough to avenge her husband's death.

