Ram

 A mind is a terrible thing to... control. "Ram", is a story set in the not too distant future; envisioning a world beset with multiple layers of intelligence brought about the post 9-11 environment. The story centers on a rogue operative with an unnamed agency born of the passing of the Third Patriot Act. By the year 2025, technology transfers have become the new sexy crime of choice. Former drug dealers now peddle Fantasy Plus - a wearable PC wired with virtual fantasies - tethered to a sleek cyberglove that provides electronic stimulation to the pleasure centers of the brain. While this technology had been encouraged to stem the tide of traditional drug use, a flaw in its design was exploited by information merchants. The result classified information at the cellular level. Undetected, couriers can now sell defense secrets to the highest bidder with a simple download at one of the thousands of Fantasy Clubs throughout the country. To combat this new security threat, an elite unit of mind-control police is deployed. The unit is so secret; it does not even exist - officially. Perpetrators who store sensitive information are subject to a punishment that fits the crime -- brain termination -- upon detection by an arresting officer. Damien Maxwell and Greg Evans are two agents with a rogue agency born out of the Third Patriot Act. Greg is engaged and family focused, while Damien is a callous, unromantic rogue obsessed with power. Melissa and Karen, fellow agents, innovate new disguises as patrons of a Fantasy Club fronted by the Government where Fantasy Plus runs rampant. Here, unsuspecting perpetrators dance the night away on Federal property with an eye toward "scoring" State secrets. The agents use sex and fantasy gear to stop would-be couriers. Melissa, a beautiful woman, has a tortured past, losing her husband at the murderous hands of a rival intelligence agency, funded by the opposition party. She has designs on using memory implants for a personal project... creating a perfect man, worthy of making Mary Shelly proud. Karen, a bookish and strange misfit, is quite effective at luring unsuspecting perpetrators to Melissa's lair. Enter Hal Tannen, a dream weaver who lures Greg and Damien by promising him that which each holds dearest. In the case of Damien, the power over lives. What Damien receives instead is his own battle with mind control. As he begins to lose his own short-term memory, his obsessions with power are replaced with a kinder outlook. But when a surge of alien flashbacks is furiously unzipped in his mind, reality spirals out of control with a shocking discovery about the true nature of Damien's identity. As pawns in a psychodrama, the characters endure mind-trips, intrigue and manipulation of the highest order.

