Raqeeb

 We have an intelligent and rich bachelor, Remo, an aspiring entrepreneur. He has complete world with no women in it. Thanks to his mischievous friend Siddarth that he meets Siddarth's chat friend, and soon falls in love with her.They soon marry and their world is full of happiness, until Sunny comes in the picture, as the lover of Sophie, from her past. Along with him comes the dilemma of choosing love of Sunny over comfort given by her spouse Remo. A diabolical plan is hatched between Sunny and Sophie to kill Remo by natural means, by just threatening him by fake bullets, so that he dies in an asthmatic attack, so that no suspicion is raised. And Remo is killed by Sunny, not by asthma, but by the gun. The bullets were real, indeed. Are there any other meanings behind the scenes more dark than this? Siddharth Verma lives a middle-class lifestyle in Mumbai, India, along with his near-comatose mom. He works as a Legal Advisor with Jain Software which is owned by his friend, Remo Matthews. Remo is single and eligible but is not seeing anyone as he has relationship problems ever since his parents passed away in a car accident several years ago on July 25. Siddharth sets him up with one of his Internet chat buddies, Sophie, they meet, fall in love and get married. Shortly after their marriage, Siddharth throws a party and invites them both, but Remo is unwell and unable to attend. Sophie attends and after the party is over she confides in him that before her marriage, she was in love with an aspiring Bollywood actor, Sunny Khanna, but their relationship did not last long. Now Sunny is back in her life and she fears for Remo's life. Siddharth and Sophie return to her home only to find Remo's lifeless body as he has been shot dead. An employee of Remo's, Sharma, witnessed a man running away from the crime-scene, through him they identify the assailant as Sunny. When Sunny goes to meet Sophie, Siddharth entraps him, leading to a physical confrontation which results in Sunny being arrested by CBI Inspector Pradhan. With Sunny behind bars Sophie decides to re-locate to an undisclosed location with over 500 Crore Rupees, little knowing that Siddharth has doubts about her and may follow her to find out what the real motive was behind Remo's death.

