Ravnovesie

 A film crew arrives at the seaside to shoot a film entitled Equilibrium. Neither the actors nor the director can figure out precisely why the scriptwriter has chosen this title. Milko, a driver working for the film crew, dreams of taking part in automobile races; his wife Elena is the cashier of the production. Maria, an assistant to the director, comes between them. The story intertwines ordinary daily lives with the world of filmmaking into a drama ending with Elena's suicide. The film crew witness this drama silently. Yet the shooting of the film and its story suddenly recede in importance before the real-life drama, a drama for which these people prove unprepared and which disturbs their inner equilibrium. To some this is an unpleasant episode that must be forgotten as quickly as possible, but to others, such as the scriptwriter and the director, it provides an occasion to re-evaluate their own lives and the films they have been making. They are shaken by the revelation that they have allowed life to pass them by in hiding from reality behind empty phrases and making pointless films. It turns out the equilibrium that everybody aspires to may all too easily turn into unconcern. At whose expense do we achieve our own equilibrium? The story revolves round a film production. In a town at the Black Sea coast, a film crew is shooting a movie. The screenwriter and the director of the 'film within a film' are shooting some pretentious trash involving a large crew. The relations between the members of the group are very strained and can have damaging consequences. They all witness a genuine human drama, which unfolds between the driver in the production, Milko, and his sensitive wife Elena, who is the cashier of the crew. The 'other woman' is the assistant director Maria - a beautiful and frivolous girl. In the familiar love triangle three people are futilely searching for balance in their personal and social lives. Milko and Maria are hiding behind a false self-confidence while Elena refuses to turn her back on Milko's adultery, which he sees as a weakness, and escape in a light-hearted love affair. Elena, too, is unable to fight against the current and commits suicide. The shooting of the movie goes on, though for the screenwriter and the director this is a reason for serious thought. They ask themselves whether they succeed in reflecting on the real problems of the people in their works. The human drama faces film people with fundamental question about truth and falsehood in art. The film is successful marriage of observations on various social strata and the confession-like tone of the filmmakers.

