Real Danger

 A nuanced, balanced look at to the controversial practice of restraining and secluding youngsters in schools, mental health and juvenile justice treatment centers in the USA. Weaving animation, archival and contemporary location footage, an original score and hard hitting intimate interviews, Real Danger delivers an unexpectedly uplifting portrayal of the strength of the human spirit in some dire circumstances. Real Danger chemical restraints at facilities intended to provide children with protection, education, and treatment. From Dr. Philippe Pinel's humane work with Parisian psychiatric patients in the early 19th century to contemporary educators, mental health providers, residential and juvenile justice treatment staff, the film casts light on this controversial practice. California Congressman George Miller, Chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor, has called the use of restraint and seclusion in child settings a "nightmare of abuse." The courageous interviewees each provide a grim reminder--educating us about this misguided method of control--which many of us thought had ended long ago. Program administrators, treatment providers, clinicians, educators, former service consumers, and parents whose children were injured or died while in restraint revealed their thoughts to me, a stranger. I am acutely aware of the genuine privilege I am afforded each time someone places their trust in me to tell their story on camera. These compelling personal accounts are intended to move the viewer through a range of responses, perhaps identical to the emotions I experienced during each stage of the production process over the past several years from rage that such barbaric behavior still exists in the name of therapeutic intervention, to quiet, tearful contemplation. My vision for the film was two-fold. First, to instill a burgeoning hope that the use of seclusion and restraints will grow increasingly less frequent. The second goal was to inspire decision makers and practitioners to reconsider this issue and strive to relegate these interventions to their rightful place as highly scrutinized or prohibited practices in child settings. Real Danger introduces an array of programs in the USA where alternative interventions, including sensory rooms and other approaches have drastically reduced or entirely eliminated the use of restraints. I set out on this film journey to depict a profoundly important aspect of our humanity and to provide a compelling cinematic experience that fires the brain and rouses the soul. My intent was to cinematically render some of the needs that join us all - a desire to be safe, to be understood, and perhaps, on the best days, to be loved, and to quiet those who would look to diminish our collective compassion. There were several unintended consequences of taking on this film. Each one holds a special place in my heart, particularly the people I've encountered, including my brilliant crew. I received wisdom and insight from the brave children, teens and adults who revealed their innermost thoughts and feelings about this complicated issue. This particular film process, though fraught with truly depressing moments, squarely reminded me that there are talented, caring and generous people everywhere on Earth who fall asleep each night knowing they've helped someone.

