Red Skies

 A Chinese cop tracks down a Chinese gang lord who specializes in kidnapping of Chinese immigrants to serve in his American sweatshops and who killed her partners. Following him to San Diego, she teams with an American agent and his team. The differences of operation immediately becomes clear as the American team relies on paperwork and she wants to attack head on to bring him down, but the two eventually reach an understanding of each other and work to bring the gangster down. The Enforcers team of individuals goes where regular federal agents can't and won't dare to venture to protect the national security of the U.S. from the scum that governs the halls of power with impunity. Led by mysterious mind-hunter Malcolm Cross, his hot-shot, tough as nails partner Riley, Lutheran agent Kay and rookie newcomer Nicole Ferguson, the Enforcers have become a new means of tackling tough cases, both federal and local. After subduing a bunch of crystal-meth pumped kidnappers running an extortion scam, the Enforcers are given a new assignment to help the I.N.S. stop a boat load of illegal refugees from the mainland of China from touching down in San Diego. What starts as a simple assignment goes haywire though, when the Enforcers encounter undercover Beijing officer Colonel Wen Li who tries to stop vicious crime lord Zhao Lo from reaching American soil. During the melee, Li's partner Po is viciously gunned down by Zhao Lo and Li's mission to stop the Triad figure gets personal for her. Li is then allowed to stay in the States until she can wrap up her case and the Enforcers are to be her guide around San Diego, trying to find the criminals that Zhao Lo is in partner with. At first, Li's not cool with the idea of a bunch of Americans hindering her from doing her job, but the group learns to adjust to one another as they try to find a group of missing Chinese kids who were never processed at the I.N.S. department but instead have found their way into a sweatshop, prostitution and drug ring headed by elegant Veronica Peirson and her gorgeous but cold-hearted daughter, Patricia. After Zhao Lo is alerted to Li's presence in San Diego, he and his brother Tam go to extreme lengths to have Li and the Enforcers rubbed out so as not to uncover their operation. For the Enforcers, solving crimes have never been this tough as the action kicks into the 'red zone' and the high stakes game of step on or be stepped on rises to extreme levels.

