Redirecting Eddie

 Making an indie film is murder under the best of circumstances, but first-time director Eddie Vassick's scenario is chaotic. Halfway through filming his main investor croaks. He has to tangle with the investor's widow who not only demands a plum role in the film when she's never acted a day in her life, but sells the film's rights to none other than Eddie's domineering older brother Warren. Warren is a B-movie mogul, king of commercial flicks, who has cast a shadow over Eddie his entire life. Eddie is forced to bend to Warren's will, and Warren immediately issues an impossible ultimatum, true to form. Eddie must re-shoot the entire film in costly 35mm format in four weeks time, or control of the entire project will revert to Warren. Meanwhile, Warren, who has always been secretly jealous of his little brother's inherent talents, has gotten his hands on a copy of Eddie's script and views this project as his one shot to catapult himself from the "B" leagues into the majors. Warren thrusts Eddie head-first into the world of big budget filmmaking, with all of the crippling pressure and diluted artistic integrity that come along with it. Eddie must face many obstacles, including a break-neck production pace, a sexy ball-breaker of an Assistant Director, and stone-aged, unionized crew members who are frozen in their ways. Warren plots that all of these elements will drive Eddie to directing destruction. Warren is right about one thing. The love-hate dynamics of Eddie's relationship with his Assistant Director Dana prove undeniable to Eddie. He falls in love with a completely resistant Dana, and must win her over during the course of the knock-down, drag-out production melee. Also, Warren seduces Eddie's right-hand man Oliver, tempting him with the perks of entertainment industry wealth and power. Oliver's resulting focus on beautiful women and late night partying costs Eddie a valuable pillar of support that could end up costing him the film. With crises like these, Eddie's film career embarks on a race against the calendar. With every obstacle Warren throws his way, Eddie is one step closer to losing his precious film and all of his dreams. Warren can taste victory and sees the prize of Eddie's film within his grasp, if only he is successful in his mission of "Redirecting Eddie."

