Rescue at Pine Ridge

 The time period is set from 1866 - 1891. The location is the vast west territory of the United States, in Texas with the reorganizing of the United States Army after the Civil War. Present are Lt. Colonel George Armstrong Custer and other renowned Officers of the time. Lt. Colonel Custer refuses command of the 9th Horse Cavalry, claiming it would stifle his career, by serving with the "Brunettes". Howard J. Mitchell, five years old, is in the tall grass watching this discussion. Lt. Colonel Custer spots Howard, and winks at him, thus, Howard is forever entranced that his first hero, just acknowledged him. Years later, 1876, Howard hears about the massacre of Little Big Horn, thus causing Howard to want revenge. Howard befriends a General and gains' entry into the U.S. Army. In 1880, Private Mitchell is stationed at Santa Fe, New Mexico, Army Supply Depot, where an attack takes place by a band of Comancheros. The 9th Cavalry, Buffalo Soldiers on temporary duty saddle breaking regimental horses, repulse the attack from half the Post and take the shot that acclaims Private Mitchell's gallantry and his commission to 2nd Lieutenant, 7th Cavalry, where he will cross the paths of these soldiers throughout the story. We then follow the 9th Cavalry throughout their acclaimed gallant history, from 1880 - 1891. They are a spirit not only to themselves, but also to the rest of the American society and especially the American-Colored people. They will keep the peace throughout the territory they patrol, from the border of Mexico, through the American Great Plains and up to the northern border of Canada. Chasing renegade hostile Indians, Comancheros, outlaws, removing land hungry settlers from Indian Territory, and performing the MOST famous rescue of the United States Army during the Indian Wars. This was just after the "Wounded Knee Massacre", at Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. Here 2nd Lieutenant Mitchell reappears with the 7th Cavalry that has just massacred the last of the "Ghost Dance" Medicine Men, Big Foot. The Sioux set a trap, which almost leads to a second massacre of the 7th Cavalry at Pine Ridge, fourteen years later. Only after an enduring all night winter march, Lieutenant Mitchell and the 7th Cavalry are saved from sure annihilation by the 9th Cavalry, K Troop, Buffalo Soldiers. Lieutenant Mitchell now knows that war is not what it is all cracked up to be. 1891, because of the gallantry and rescue at Pine Ridge, the 9th Cavalry, K Troop, Buffalo Soldiers are rewarded with the nation's most prestigious duty of their time, Fort Myer, Washington D.C., Presidential Parades, Escorts and Burial Detail. This is where we see our second boy, Benjamin O. Davis Sr., fourteen years old, who tells his Grandmother he wants to be a Buffalo Soldier. Rescue At Pine Ridge, takes us on a journey with one of the most highly disrespected regiments in the history of the United States Military, "The Buffalo Soldiers". The gossip and rumors they experienced were false due to racism and paranoia. The civilians, their Officers, the Indians that gave them their name, who observed their bravery, gallantry and heroism, knew better.

