Resilience

 Myoung-ja, who has sent her son Brent (Sung-wook) abroad to be adopted meets him after 30 years and spends a special time with him. They meet for the first time on national TV, then part ways and meet repeatedly, trying to become a family again. Unfortunately, they are faced with problems that so many families with adopted children experience, such as the language barrier and the cultural gap. Myoung-ja takes part in a movement against international adoptions and tries to build a firm base for her life as she takes care of children born to single mothers. The process of becoming a mother and son unfolds dramatically through interviews and observations that take place over an extended period of time. Over the past six decades, approximately 200,000 children have been adopted from South Korea to North America, Europe, and Australia, more than any other country. Many birth families and adoptees search for each other, but only a few reunite. This award-winning documentary takes a look at a side of adoption rarely told-what happens after the reunion. Resilience follows a Korean birth mother and her American son as they reunite and attempt to build a relationship after 30 years apart. Unable to communicate with each other, and amidst cultural clashes, the film follows the perspectives of both mother and son as they struggle to become a family again. As a young mother, Myung-ja found herself on the verge of poverty and desperation. Leaving her son in the care of relatives, she went to another city for work. When she returned, her baby was gone-taken away and put up for adoption. Living in South Dakota, Brent had an "all-American" upbringing, hardly questioning his origins or Korean identity. Brent had always wondered why he was given up but never thought he would find the answer-until on Korean national TV when he meets his mother for the first time. Myung-ja and Brent's lives change forever when they reunite after 30 years. But their reunion is short-lived. Meeting twice in the next four years, the film follows Myung-ja and Brent, as they navigate a delicate and touching path towards reconciliation and understanding.

