Return to House on Haunted Hill

 It started when five people agreed to spend one night in a haunted house . . . What began as an evening of fun a harmless scares in exchange for one million dollars to anyone who stayed the night--and survived--soon turned into a night of terror. Years later, several more people risk their lives in search of a cursed statue of Baphomet, a relic worth millions that will come at the cost of their souls. Now, the terror begins when the doomed Return to House on Haunted Hill 8 Years have passed since Sara Wolfe and Eddie Baker escaped the House on Haunted Hill. Now the kidnapped Ariel, Sara's sister, goes inside the house with a group of treasure hunters to find the statue of Baphomet, worth millions and believed to be the cause of the House's evil. The editor of a fashion magazine Ariel Wolfe receives many calls from her sister Sara, but she does not return. When Sara is found dead, apparently after committing suicide, Ariel goes to her apartment with her friend and photographer Paul. She meets Professor Richard, who is seeking Sara's journal to find a lead to the statue of the evil god Baphomet for a museum. Later, Ariel and Paul are kidnapped by the gang of the treasure hunter Desmond, who intends to find and sell the statue to a private collector for five million dollars. They go to the house, where they meet Richard, his assistant Kyle and the student Michelle, but the criminals dominate the group. However, the house suddenly closes all the exits and they find trapped inside with vision of ghosts that are reliving their final moments in the place they died. The death of the haunted house's survivor Sarah, apparently by suicide, is the starting point for different ways to lead to following back onto haunted hill using her diary. Her sister seeks the truth but bumps into treasure hunters, who stop at nothing to get inside in search of the fabulously valuable statue of the evil god Baphomet, the legendary source of its evil. Only college professor-relic hunter's assistant Kyle has pure motives too, while the evil awakes, sparing nobody.

