Return of the Plankton

 Return of the Plankton,exposes viewers to the wealth of life in Puget Sound ecosystems by following two scuba divers through the seasons underwater. They discover the role of plankton as the basis of the Puget Sound food web. Supplementary materials provide study aids for classroom use. In spring increased sunlight and the nutrients, accumulated over winter, make it possible for phytoplankton to multiply rapidly, doubling in numbers every few hours and clouding the water. The currents carry plankton to myriad animals who have attached themselves to hard surfaces and simply wait for the food to come to them. In summer the water clears because the supply of nutrients in the water diminishes with succeeding generations of phytoplankton. Animal larvae have consumed many of the diatoms and are making a good start at consuming each other, passing the energy of the sun along the food web. Some of the plankton, such as barnacles, drift temporarily then settle to the bottom and take on a new life. In fall tattered kelp, bacteria and plankton fall to the bottom providing food for detritus eating bottom dwellers and the larger animals that live on them. Many creatures are searching the bottom for a meal, like sand dollars that eat the algae and detritus from the surface of the bottom. Moon snails leave a trail in their search for clams. Sea slugs devour a plankton-eater, the sea pen. Moon snails, crabs, sea stars, sand dollars, clams, oysters, barnacles, shrimp and seaweeds all spend part of their lives as plankton. In winter, many creatures are spawning and guarding their eggs until spring when the new generation hatches in time to take advantage of the plankton bloom. However, some of the most numerous plankton are present in the water all year round. Copepods never graduate from a planktonic existence. They are, along with diatoms, the great treasure of the sound, two of the major supports of the Puget Sound food web. Art and science come together in an exciting half hour video journey underwater near Seattle, Washington. The journey begins in Spring when the plankton bloom benefits filter feeders like anemones, barnacles and tube worms. In summer, the plankton population thins, but exploration of the food web continues as the divers witness the capture of a crab by an Giant Pacific octopus. In fall, a harbor seal and a dogfish look for food along the bottom of Eagle harbor. In winter focus shifts to fish guarding eggs and taking refuge in the rocky shelves created by the fault between Bainbridge Island and Seattle. In early spring the young fish hatch in time to take advantage of the return of the plankton.

