Revenge of the Pink Panther

 To prove that he still is strong and powerful, Philippe Douvier decides to kill Chief Inspector Jacques Clouseau. Once Clouseau's death has been announced, the former Chief Inspector, Charles Dreyfus, feels much, much better and is released from the mental hospital. Jacques Clouseau tries to take advantage of his "death" and goes under cover with Cato to find out who tried to assassinate him. Chief Inspector Jacques Clouseau is dead. At least that is what the world (and Charles Dreyfus) believe when a dead body is discovered in Clouseau's car after being shot off the road. Naturally, Jacques Clouseau knows differently, and taking advantage of not being alive, sets out to discover why an attempt was made on his life. But how will Dreyfus react when he finds out that his dream is really a nightmare? The French Syndicate has a pending deal with the Americans but the Americans want to pull out. But Douvier, the head of the French says that all the arrangements have been concluded. But the Americans feel that Douvier is no longer as powerful as he once was. Douvier then tells them that to prove that he is still powerful, he will do something to get their attention. He then consults with his asociates for possible acts he could perform. Then one of his people suggest that he eliminate Inspector Clouseau. He tries but Clouseau is just too difficult to kill. He then tries to ambush Clouseau but a thief took his car and clothes, so the thief was the one who was killed but everyone believes that it was Clouseau. Clouseau after being mistaken for a lunatic and being sent to mental hospital, escapes and tries to find out who tried to kill him. Fifth of the Pink Panther series and the last to star Peter Sellers before his untimely death. French mobster, Phillip Douvier has got a problem - hardly none of the other crime families give his family any respect. To try and fix this problem, he gives orders to murder Chief Inspector Clouseau who everybody think is a genius and only a few like Chief Inspector Dreyfus know of his true stupidity. Thanks due to a mixup an escaping criminal dies in Clouseau's car, and it crashes and explodes. Chief Inspector Dreyfus is delighted (so much so that when at the memorial service he tries very hard not to laugh out in delight and everybody thinks he's crying), but Clouseau, wondering who's out to kill him gets the help of his oriental servant Cato and Douvier's secretary and ex-lover Simone Legree to help solve the mystery...

