Rishtey

 Suraj Singh (Anil Kapoor) is in love with the beautiful and wealthy Komal (Karisma Kapoor). They dream of their perfect family together but her arrogant father Yashpal Chaudhary (Amrish Puri) detests Suraj because he is middle class youth, with no riches whatsoever. Komal cuts all ties with her father and marries Suraj, she is soon pregnant.Komal and her estranged father meet at a family wedding and her forgives her for leaving abruptly. Yashpal agrees to meet Suraj but when they reach home they see a seductress inside, wearing Komal's gown and drinking tea in the kitchen. Suraj walks in totally oblivious to the fact that there is a woman inside her house that he does not know. Komal questions the seductress and she says she shares Komal's husband. Komal is furious and tries to commit suicide but Suraj stops her and repeatedly tries to prove his innocence. It turns out Yashpal set up the whole thing to break their marriage. Komal leaves her husband with her father. She delivers a baby boy but Yashpal wants to make sure that the one thing that can bring her daughter and Suraj together be eliminated immediately. He hires hit men to kill the baby but Suraj manages to get away with his son.They move to a unknown place and he raises his son with the help of the villagers. Suraj later meets Vaijanti (Shilpa Shetty) an eccentric fisher woman who his son sees as a mother and friend. Vaijanti begins to love Suraj, and hopes that he feels the same way.Komal depressed and lonely spots her son with Suraj. Then begins a bitter custody battle between her and Suraj. Suraj Singh is a wrestler by profession and has the misfortune of falling in love with wealthy Yashpaul Chaudhary's daughter Komal. When Yashpaul learn of there relationship he arrogantly disagree of his daughter's choice but Komal refuses to accept her dad's word and gets married to Suraj without the blessings of Yashpaul. Aggravated by his daughter's act Yashpaul connote some negative scenes which spoil Suraj's character in the eyes of Komal resulting in the couple's separation. Before separation Komal has give birth to a baby boy, which Yashpaul had wanted to kill but Suraj escapes with the child and single-handily brings him up in a poor environment. Years later Komal will return and demand that her child be handed over to her even if having to appeal to the judicial system. Street-wise, street fighter, Suraj Singh, romances a wealthy industrialist only daughter, Komal, and marries her, much to the chargin and anger of her dad, Yashpal Chaudhry. Yashpal plots to separate the two, and does succeed, but only after the birth of baby boy. Komal rejects the child, and returns to her dad, leaving Suraj to bring up the child alone. Seven years later, Komal and Yashpal re-enter Suraj's live, to demand that he return his child, Karan, to them. The Judge initially awards custody of Karan to Komal, but later re-opens the file, and asks Suraj to deposit fifteen lakh rupees or else the child will get to live with Komal permanently.

