RMS Titanic

 The harrowing story of a young newly married couple on their return honeymoon voyage. However, the groom is the son of the founder of Biograph Company, Henry Marvin. The 1912 news reads as follows... Miss Mary G. C. Farquharsen, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Farquharsen of 317 Riverside Drive, was married to Daniel Warren Marvin on Tuesday. The ceremony was performed in the home of the bride's parents by the Rev. Dr. John Caughey of the Harlem Presbyterian Church. The bridegroom was a son of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Norton Marvin, who was a founder of the American Mutoscope and Biograph Company. Mr. and Mrs. Marvin sailed on the Mauretania on Wednesday for a bridal trip of five weeks. Daniel and Mary boarded the Titanic at Southampton as first class passengers. They were returning to New York City from their honeymoon in Europe. They occupied cabin D-30. The RMS Titanic was the second of a trio of super-liners intended to dominate the transatlantic travel business. Owned by the White Star Line and built at the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast, Ireland, Titanic was the largest passenger steamship in the world at the time of its launching. On the return voyage. it struck an iceberg at 11 of the accident Daniel assisted his wife to a lifeboat with the words "It's alright, little girl. You go. I will stay.". The RMS Titanic sank at 2 AM Monday morning on April 15, 1912. Among the crowds that gathered at the New York offices of White Star on April 15 1912 were relatives of both Daniel and Mary Marvin that Mary had been saved but there was no word of Daniel Marvin. When returning from picking up the RMS Titanic survivors, the rescue ship Carpathia docked, and Mrs. Daniel Marvin fainted when she learned that there was no hope for her husband to be alive. - "He kissed me goodbye," stated the poor young lady, "and I never saw him again." Daniel died in the sinking, his body, if recovered, was never identified. Over 90 years later, Biograph has recovered and acquired the actual film images taken aboard the Titanic, believed to have been taken by Marvin. This amazing documentary is not only about the Titanic tragedy, but about a young couple who were a part of this historic company.

