Roarin' Lead

 Hackett is out to take over the Cattlemen's Association by bankrupting them. His men rustle the cattle forcing the payouts to the ranchers. The Three Mesquiteers arrive and soon learn that the coward Canary is one of the gang. Stony has a plan that he hopes will get a confession from him. The third entry of Republic's "Three Mesquiteers" series is split between being an action western and a kid vaudeville show, with Mesquiteers Stony Brooke, Tucson Smith and Lullaby Joslin spending more time as the trustees of an estate than they do chasing rustlers. As trustees of the Sam Clark estate, they find the Cattleman's Protective Association and The Children's Orphange, sponsored by the late Clark, on the verge of bankruptcy because of cattle rustling which involved heavy insurance losses.The orphanage, managed by Doris Moore, is being closed and a group of county housewives and husbands are on hand adopting children right and left, including some ugly ones. The Mesquiteers quickly put an end to this proceeding (why?... since the ugly ones were going also) and assure Doris they will have enough money within three days to keep the orphanage going. They hit the trail chasing the rustlers who just hit the Wilson herd, and are surprised to find that the hired enforcers of the Cattleman's Protective Association, Gardner and Canary and other minions, are apparently aiding the rustlers. They also go back to town and fire the entire Clark estate board, including Hackett, who is the brains behind the rustlers. Fearing the Mesquiteers won't be able to raise the money in time to save the orphanage, and with good cause based on ground gained to this point, Doris puts on a benefit show using the orphans as the entertainers---all of the orphans were enrolled at L.A.'s Meglin School for Kid performers in real life---and this segment is the reason the flash-forward button was invented. Gardner, Canary and a dozen or so henchies are also in attendance bent on making trouble and stealing the show's proceeds.

