Robbers of the Range

 Rancher Jim Drummond refuses to sell his ranch to a land agent named Greely. The latter with Monk and Blackie, henchmen of the railroad purchasing agent, Rankin, frame Jim for the murder of rancher Williams and Jim is arrested and sent to Blue Mesa for trial. On the way, the stage he is riding in with a deputy sheriff is attacked by Rankin's men. The sheriff and a young gunman named Curly Yantis are killed, and Jim drives the stage into Blue Mesa and poses as Curly Yantis, explaining that Jim Drummond was killed. Jim's ranch hands Smokey and Whopper ride into town and Jim tells them what has transpired. The ranchers have formed a protective association, with Roy Tremaine as the head. Jim, Whopper and Smokey help Tremaine raise enough money to pay off a mortgage and save his ranch. Jim begins to fall for Tremaine's pretty daughter Alice. Monk and Greeley frame Tremaine for the murder of rancher Higgins but Jim and his friends capture Greeley and force him to tell where the evidence is that will free Tremaine. The trial is set for the next day, and Rankin's men are guarding the town to keep him from getting in with Greeley. Rankin is shocked when railroad executive Colonel Lodge arrives to look the situation over for himself. The jury is rigged and Tremaine is found guilty, but Jim comes in with Greeley with the new evidence. Rankins realizes his game is up and that Lodge is onto him, and he and his gang prevent anybody from leaving the courthouse while they prepare to leave town with all the ill-gained money they have acquired. Jim and the other ranchers prevent this and capture the crooks, and Lodge promises to make things right with the ranchers. Out to obtain land for the new railroad, Rankin has tricked rancher Jim Drummond and has had him framed for murder. As Jim is being transferred the stage is attacked and all are killed except him. He now assumes the identity of the gunfighter who was killed in the attack and sets out to clear himself. When Rankin uses the same trick to frame another rancher, Jim is ready. Rancher Jim Drummond is framed for murder by crooked railroad agent J.R. Rankin, who will stop at nothing to gain valuable properties in the path of the future railroad.

