RoboCop 3

 The mega corporation Omni Consumer Products is still bent on creating their pet project, Delta City, to replace the rotting city of Detroit. Unfortunately, the inhabitants of the area have no intention of abandoning their homes simply for desires of the company. To this end, OCP have decided to force them to leave by employing a ruthless mercenary army to attack and harass them. An underground resistance begins and in this fight, Robocop must decide where his loyalties lie. Omni Consumer Products (OCP) begins its plan for the creation of Delta City. As part of this program, a special Rehab squad leaded by Commander Paul McDaggett is deployed as they evacuate the city in a forced manner tearing down part of the city. In this chaos, a young girl named Nikko is left alone and picked up by a group of citizens joining together to strike on OCP, first raiding a Police Department Armory Warehouse. Murphy is sent to the chase of this group, but he eventually ignored the order when he received a back up call from Anne Lewis and the other officers who were attacked by a group of Cyber Punks. This violation leads to the decision of finally cutting Murphy's past memories for good, as he finds himself between the line of Law Enforcement and Popular Opinion when the law is beginning to be corrupted, and he is betrayed by the law he sought to uphold when Lewis is killed, and he is left for dead... all of this thanks to Directive 4 Down." At the same time, the new younger CEO of OCP begins relations with a Japanese Cybernetics Corporation leaded by a man named Kanemitsu for Monetary support, leading into the deployment of the advanced Android Otomo, a fully skilled Ninja with full human appearance, but still a machine. Slowly as all of Detroit joins the Motor City's cause, including the Police Department, McDaggett sees use for the arrested criminals to create his own army of criminals to strike down the City's militia once and for all. The only hope, Murphy overcoming the control placed on him by Directive 4, and bring down this corrupted plan. Some time after Robocop put an end to the "Nuke" production. Things have changed dramatically thereafter. OCP's CEO known as "The old man" is gone, and their "Delta City" project has begun, but not before OCP was bought out by the Japanese robotic company known as "Kanemitsu". They have formulated their own police force who are flushing people out of their homes and send them to OCP's special rehabilitation program. However, a little girl named Nikko had escaped from the program and is now with a group of rebels. Then Robocop and his partner, Anne Lewis, see activity at a church, where the OCP force led by a man named Paul McDagget is about to wipe out the rebels. Until Robocop was heavily damaged by McDagget's forces and killed Lewis. Meanwhile, the new CEO of OCP has just receive notice that Kanemitsu will help with the construction of "Delta City", as they sent their own part-human, part-robot to assist OCP, named Otomo. When the rebels repaired Robocop, he starts to find McDagget. Now Robocop must find McDagget and watch out for Otomo and OCP.

