Rocky Balboa

 When he loses a highly publicized virtual boxing match to ex-champ Rocky Balboa, reigning heavyweight titleholder Mason Dixon retaliates by challenging the Itallian Stallion to a nationally televised, 10-round exhibition bout. To the surprise of his son and friends, Rocky agrees to come out of retirement and face an opponent who's faster, stronger and thirty years his junior. With the odds stacked firmly against him, Rocky takes on Dixon in what will become the greatest fight in boxing history, a hard-hitting, action-packed battle of the ages. Rocky Balboa is a longtime retired boxer and remembered by most as one of the greatest boxing champions in the world. He now lives back in the skids of Philadelphia but manages a good life including running his restaurant Adrian's, helping an adult Little Marie and her son Steps, and saying hello at any opportunity to his estranged son Robert. After seeing a virtual fight of Rocky in his prime vs. heavyweight champion Mason "the Line" Dixon, Rocky's interest in fighting sparks again and he plans to fight in local clubs. Mason Dixon and his managers have a different agenda though, with a plan to pit Rocky vs. Mason in real life for a publicity act to regain Mason's lost respect from his fans. Finally agreeing to Mason Dixon's proposal, Rocky prepares to step in the ring for one last time. A widower of many years now Rocky has fallen into a routine of looking back to his past. A coincidental meeting with a girl that is now all grown up gets him back on track. Rocky always wanting to help those that he cares about lends a hand out for she and her son. Rocky now owns a small restaurant in the heart of Philly, he finds himself telling stories to those that ask about old fights and taking photos with his fans. Paulie, his wife's brother shows him an ESPN exclusive about a virtual fight between reigning undefeated heavy weight champion of the world Mason "The Line" Dixon. The virtual bout intrigues everyone with Rocky "the Italion Stallion" as the winner. Rocky feels like he needs to get back in the ring not for a title shot, but for some local fights that will satisfy his love of the game. When Rocky is approached by Dixon's managers Rocky can't turn the semi charity event down. After tying things back up with his son, Rocky, Duke (his former trainer), Paulie, and Rocky Jr. get to work training the still in shape former 2 time heavy weight champion of the world. You'll be inspired by the heart vs skill bout of ten amazing rounds.

