Rockin' with Judy Jetson

 A hip rock star has stolen Judy Jetson's heart, so she joins two of her girl friends at his concert, following close behind her is George, who's turned his hair into a Mohawk. But an evil witch who hates music has kidnapped the rock star, so Judy and her friends go off to rescue him and George get's thrown in jail. Elroy and Astro come to the rescue, but are stuck with a difficult question - who do they save first? George or Judy? Even Jane, Rosie and Mr. Spacely are along for the fun as the teenage adolescent Jetson daughter goes to heroic heights to battle the evil witch and join her rock star companion and possibly perform on stage with him. Judy Jetson is the star in this full-length animated adventure! Judy has written a song for her favorite rock star Sky Rocker and when she intends to give it to him, an evil witch called Felonia Funk, who hates music, has sent her bumbling errand boys to deliver a message to help her obtain a rare diamond that will help her destroy all music. Felonia's errand boys accidentally crash into Sky and their papers get mixed up and at his next concert, he sings the message and Judy is very upset that she thinks he translated her message. When Felonia kidnaps Sky, Judy and her friends must rescue him. And even George, Astro, Elroy, and Mr. Spacely get caught up in the whole thing. Judy Jetson stars in this full length cartoon. She writes a song, she then gives it to rock and roll star, hoping that he will perform it. However, a woman named Felonia, who hates music and would like to obliterate it, needs a rare element to do. Now she gives her two bumbling errand boys a coded message to deliver to her general so that he can get it, but the two guys bumped into the rock star and they got Judy's song and the rock star has the message. Now the general goes to the wrong place and gets the wrong thing and the rock star performs what he thinks is Judy's song. And when Felonia hears it, she has the rock star abducted and is also after Judy.

