Rollin' with the Nines

 Too Fine and his friends Finny, Pushy and Rage hope to set up a successful urban underground garage act and escape the lives they're trying to leave behind. But this dream all goes tragically wrong when Too Fine is murdered in a drive by-shooting at the hands of Temper, a former adversary from his days peddling rock on the streets who he owed a large unpayed debt to. To make matters worse, the weight of this burden falls on his sister Hope, who is brutally attacked and raped by Temper with a warning of worse things to come if the debt is not settled soon. With no way of paying the debt and seeking revenge, she visits Temper early one morning and blasts him to death. The dust settles for a while after this until Hope learns that Temper was a good associate of gangster David Brumby, who has now lost a good business partner. But then Hope suggests she becomes his new partner and before long she and Too Fine's friends are back doing what they did before they tried to make it big. But after an horrific nightclub shooting at the hands of Pushy and Rage in retaliation for Too Fine's murder, two persistent detectives get on their case and it's only a matter of time before everything threatens to come crashing down around them. In London, the former small time criminals and rappers Too Fine, Finny and Rage release a hip-hop CD of their band "Time Served", promoted by their friend Pushy, expecting to be successful and make lots of money. But when the violent drug dealer Temper murders Too Fine due to a debt on drugs, rapes his sister Hope and threatens their family, Hope kills Temper in his apartment sooner and Finny and Rage execute his partners in a night club. The dirty but efficient Detective Andy White and his partner investigate the murders and try to find and arrest the killers, while Finny, Rage, Pushy and Hope returns to the criminal life, associating to the former partner of Temper, the powerful gangster David Brumby, dealing drugs on the streets.

