Roman d'amour

 A wealthy young man in his motor car is impatiently waiting for the working girls to come out of a dress-making establishment. At last the working girls appear. The young man addresses one of them, offering her some flowers, and leads her to the automobile, which quickly takes them away. The next scene brings us to a restaurant of ill repute. We see the young man enter with his new acquaintance, dressed in the height of fashion. He introduces her to his companions. Champagne is served. First reticent the young girl under the influence of rippling champagne, becomes more and more ...(illegible)...prey to her enticer. The next scene shows the lovers at home in their cottage. The young man gradually tires of his relations with the young woman and tries to get rid of her. The visit of his old companions affords him a good excuse to leave her. The young woman understands that this is the beginning of the end and the closing chapter of her dreams of happiness. Deserted, she sinks lower and lower until, almost frenzied by hunger, she comes to a suburban place of ill repute. Misery has taught her to beg. Exhausted with sufferings and dying of hunger, she falls. The next scene brings us to the parents' home. While waiting the father's return, the mother is sewing. The postman brings a letter. The mother, recognizing her daughter's handwriting, lays her head weeping upon her arms. The father returns from work. He asks the cause of his wife's tears. At last she gives him the letter just received. Stormy winter night. Annie's companion tries to force her to a shameful occupation, which she emphatically refuses to obey. The enraged brute draws a dagger, runs after the fleeing woman, catches her upon a high bridge and stabs her in the breast. He then throws her over the railing down in the deep, cold water. The outcry of the poor woman attracts two policemen, who rescue her. This scene shows Annie in the hospital in a dying condition. She prays to see her parents and receive their forgiveness. The parents appear, and Annie dies in the arms of her beloved ones.

