Romantic Redskins

 Two old chiefs, Eagle Eye and War Scar, of time honored tribes, and close neighbors and friends, had each a beautiful daughter, that of Eagle Eye being Minette, whilst the daughter of War Scar was called Folette. Now these old chaps were most jealous of their daughters, guarding them with rigorous care against the efforts of the love lorn youth to capture the susceptible maidens. Two young braves of neighboring tribes came many miles in their bark canoes to ask her hand of War Scar. Both chiefs are obdurate. "If you take our women, who will do our work? No! Go back to your tribe and leave to us our daughters, etc." The girls are heartbroken. The young braves determined "We will have your daughters," and with threats depart. The old chiefs after a conference decide to each marry the other's daughter and so keep them for all time. With threats and whipping they drag them before the mission priest, Father McCann, who upon seeing the true state of affairs sends them off about their business, refusing to marry them. The wily old chiefs then conceive the scheme of taking their tents and belongings, including the girls, to a desolate island, and there, by starving, strive to force them into subjection. The poor girls are in an extreme state of suffering and despair when the young lovers discover the place of isolation and run to the old priest for counsel. They come upon him as he is striving with laudanum drops and whiskey to allay a jumping toothache. The youths tell their story. A merry twinkle dances in the eyes of the dear old fellow, as he thinks of a plan to help the love sick youngsters. He puts the drops into the bottle of whiskey and, knowing the craze of the Indian for the firewater, gives it to the twain with instructions to see that the old men drink it and whilst they sleep insensibly to "Steal the daughters and bring them to me and I will tie you so tight, no one will get you apart again." The boys depart full of hope and adventure. The lovers reach the island; surprise the girls, who soon enter into the plot. The old men get the bottle and without waiting explanations as to how it came there are soon in a highly hilarious state, followed by deep unwakeable sleep. The youngsters to get all their possessions, leaving them marooned. We see them going rapidly away down the river in their canoes. Father McCann marries them and gives them his blessing and then we see them happy in their own tepees living as they should live in love and happiness, with the conditions reversed, the men caring for and waiting upon their wives.

