Romancing the Stone

 Joan Wilder, a mousy romance novelist, receives a treasure map in the mail from her recently murdered brother-in-law. Meanwhile, her sister Elaine is kidnapped in Colombia and the two criminals responsible demand that she travel to Colombia to exchange the map for her sister. Joan does, and quickly becomes lost in the jungle after being waylayed by Zolo, a vicious and corrupt Colombian cop who will stop at nothing to obtain the map. There, she meets an irreverent soldier-of-fortune named Jack Colton who agrees to bring her back to civilization. Together, they embark upon an adventure that could be straight out of Joan's novels. New York City based Joan Wilder is a highly successful author of adventure romance novels. She is the polar opposite of Angelina, the heroine in many of her novels. Angelina is a strong, confident woman who uses her sexuality to her advantage and who is swept off her feet by the stories' hero, a man named Jessie. Joan, on the other hand, is afraid of life. She lives vicariously through her stories, and hopes that there is a real life Jessie who will someday sweep her off her feet. Joan's world is turned upside down when she receives news from her sister Elaine in Cartegena, Colombia that she has been kidnapped, the ransom being a treasure map which Elaine's now murdered husband, Eduardo, has since sent to Joan. Unprepared to leave the safety of her New York City apartment, Joan nonetheless travels to Colombia with treasure map in hand to save Elaine. In Colombia, Joan is thrown into the middle of something akin to the adventure part of her novels, not primarily through Cartegena, but inadvertently through the jungles of Colombia. She not only has to face the dangers of the jungle, but Elaine's captors - American illegal treasure hunters, cousins named Ira and Ralph - a Colombian military policeman named Zolo who, with his private army, is also after the treasure, and a bunch of drug runners who are solely trying to protect their way of life. To Joan's rescue - for a fee - is Jack Colton, an American in Colombia who has always taken the "fast and easy" way to what he wants in life, which is now enough money to buy a luxury sailboat in which to sail around the world. After Jack learns of the treasure map, he too becomes focused on whatever the unknown treasure - something the cryptic map calls El Corazon - to achieve his goal. Will Jack do whatever he can to get the treasure, even if it ultimately harms Joan and Elaine, or could Jack be Joan's real life Jessie? The writer of romantic novels Joan Wilder travels to south America to look for and rescue her kidnapped sister. She finds herself stranded in the jungles and finds help in the form of the soldier of fortune Jack Colton. The two go through a number of adventures, deal with the bad villains Ralph and company, and end up falling in love. Joan Wilder is a mousey writer of romance novels. She finds a package from her sister mailed from Colombia in her mailbox. A call from her sister tells her that she has been kidnapped and that bringing the package to Colombia is necessary for her safety and release. Being fairly clueless, she leaves for Colombia to rescue her sister. She is lost within hours of her arrival. She is nearly murdered by one of the men searching for the package when Jack Colton, a fairly low life American rescues her. They begin a journey through the jungle with bullets flying nearby. Is Joan up to all of this? What a way to find out.

