Rooted in Peace

 Greg believes that fish live in the sewer system and is looking for the Big Fish. We hear the sounds of a car crushing the leg of Greg. Within minutes, an ambulance arrives on the scene escorting Greg to the local hospital. During the ambulance ride, an oxygen mask is fixed on Greg's face to help ease the pain of his broken leg. Fourteen years later. Greg, a New-York native, relives his childhood memory of wearing a gas mask. Working as a volunteer in kibbutz Gesher in Israel, Greg finds himself trapped the Iraq-Israel Gulf War. We see another unveiling of the gas mask by an Arab Muslim mother to her child and Greg flashes back to his own traumatic experience. As the bombs shells stops and the sirens phase out, the Arab mother removes the gas mask and in the same flashback the ambulance nurse removes the gas mask from Greg's own face. Greg returns stateside to Amherst. He continues his studies and enrolls in an overseas program in Hokkaido University. During his program, he travels with his fellow comrades to Hiroshima. His friends are drawn to tears, but to Greg's dismay he has no emotions. Two weeks later, Greg returns to Amherst. In the night, Greg has a post-traumatic war syndrome and wakes up in tears from the memories of the atomic bombs and the Gulf War. Greg organizes a tree drive on the Amherst campus called, 'The Giving Tree his quest for saving the world fails before it even begins. Eighteen years later, Greg relives the horrors of war but this time in his own hometown. The bombings of 911 sent a message of fear throughout the globe. Seeing again the atrocities of war, Greg is dumbfounded by the government's tactics of using fear to control civil society. Greg returns home to New York and has a confrontation at the JFK airport where security asked him to take off his shoes, belt and other accessories and leave behind his toothpaste and bottle of water. It is this incident where Greg decides to bring the story of Rooted in Peace into the world, so that we may sop living in fear and instead live in peace. Joining Greg are many of today's great thinkers, political leaders and scholars who shed light on human consciousness and sustainability.

