Run Fatboy Run

 Dennis is a clueless and slightly overweight guy, who left his pregnant fiancEe five years earlier. Every day, Dennis tries to persuade the woman he loves to accept him back into his life, but everyday he fails. When he discovers that Libby has found a partner in the form of American Whit, frustration grows, and Dennis vows, that for once in his life, he will finish something. This something ends up being a Nike River-run in London. With his friends Gordon and Mr. Ghoshdashtidar by his side, Dennis begins training for the marathon he must finish. Clumsy, lazy London boutique security guard Dennis left Liby, the mother of doting and adored five year-old Jake, at the altar. Now she has a new lover, hunky American business executive Whit, who takes an active interest in the boy, Dennis fears to loose Jack. Hearing Whit is training for another marathon, Dennis hopes to prove himself worthy. Getting fit would fail utterly, hadn't his dodgy mate Gordon wagered on him against his dangerous gambling debts, while Dennis's Indian-roots landlord Ghoshadi Das volunteers as 'assitant coach', armed with a motivational ladle. It's a miracle they even get Dennis registered, too late, needing a sponsor. That done, the race proves eventful, and reveals Whit isn't as perfect as he looked naked in a gym locker-room as well as an engagement party. U.K.-born Dennis Doyle is in love with Elizabeth Odell, both get intimate, and when Elizabeth gets pregnant, plan to get married. On the day of the marriage, Dennis gets cold feet at the 11th hour and flees. Five years later, Dennis regrets this decision and attempts to re-enter Elizabeth and his son's lives encouraged by his friends, Gordon, and Ghoshadi Das, a Londoner originally from India. He decides to impress her by participating in a marathon-run in London. Before he could even act further, he finds out that Elizabeth has an American boyfriend, Whit, who proposes to her - and she accepts. Watch what impact this has on a visibly overweight Dennis' decision to continue to participate in the marathon-run. A chunky, clueless guy leaves his pregnant fiancEe on their wedding day only to discover -- 5 years later -- that she is his one true love. But in order to win back her heart, he looks to finish his first marathon while making her realize her new man is the wrong guy for her.

