S.W.A.T.

 Based off of a one time T.V. show, two Los Angeles S.W.A.T. officers Jim Street and Brian Gamble were sent in to foil an extremely violent bank robbery. Although they thwarted the robbery, they shot a hostage in the process. Street was suspended from S.W.A.T. while Gamble was fired altogether. After 6 months, a veteran S.W.A.T. officer, Daniel Harrelson or "Hondo", is told to assemble a S.W.A.T. team for his division. He chooses other S.W.A.T. officers as well as 3 rookies. However, after they pass the S.W.A.T. training, they receive a message that a French crime boss, known as Alex Montell is trying to escape from prison. This will not be easy to prevent, especially after Montell promises $100 Million to his rescuers. The Special Weapons and Tactical division of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is the most honored and respected unit in the entire world. When two cops, Officers Jim Street and Brian Gamble foil a bank robbery holdup by shooting a female hostage, the two are kicked out of SWAT, stashing them into the "gun cage". Six months later, Street's ex-friend Gamble is gone, and so is his future until one day an cop arrives to give Street a second chance at redemption by putting him back on SWAT. That man is veteran Sergeant Dan 'Hondo' Harrelson, an Old School boss cop who think second chances are just a-OK. Now Hondo, Street, and the new SWAT team consisting of female cop, Christina 'Chris' Sanchez, has a big mission Montel, a international fugitive and serial killer to a federal prison in the California desert, but problems get in the way along the way including two fake cops breaking the detainee out, offering $100 Million on live TV to street gangs who can get Montel out, and worse, Gamble and McCabe getting him to safety. Can the SWAT team take down Montel and can Street finish the score with Gamble? Jim Street is a former S.W.A.T. team member, who along with his partner Brian Gamble, is thrown off the team in the aftermath of a controversial decision they made during a robbery/hostage standoff. Gamble quits the force in disgust, but for Street, being a policeman is his life and he agrees to a demotion, hoping to someday have the chance to redeem himself and once again wear the privileged S.W.A.T. uniform. He gets that chance when team commander Dan "Hondo" Harrelson is assigned to recruit and train five top-notch officers for a new Special Weapons and Tactics unit. After weeks of rigorous physical training, the new team is immediately thrown into action when a notorious drug lord, offers a $100 million bounty to anyone who can free him from police custody. As they escort the kingpin out of Los Angeles into the hands of the Feds, the S.W.A.T. team is pursued by a ruthless and well-armed band of mercenaries. S.W.A.T. officer Jim Street who along with his partner, Gamble chose not follow orders of holding their position and saved a hostage but the hostage was injured. The unit Captain who's more concerned about how this affects him, politically, wants to make them sacrificial lambs. But instead has them reassigned to the gun cage. The Captain knows that Gamble was the one who decided to do it and offers Street the opportunity to say so in exchange for being placed back on S.W.A.T. but Street refuses. However Gamble and some other cops think that Street talked which makes him a pariah. Gamble leaves the department. Nearly a year later Hondo Harrelson, a team leader who doesn't get along with the Captain neither is brought back to form a new unit. He chooses some present S.W.A.T. members McCabe and Boxer and recruits patrolmen Deacon Kay and Chris Sanchez, who has been trying to get on S.W.A.T. but the Captain won't let her. And he chooses Street. After training, they get a major job, getting a Crime Lord to prison but he has offered a 100 million dollars to anyone who can bust him out. An arrested drug kingpin is transported by a Los Angeles Police Department SWAT team led by Jackson's character out of the city and into federal custody. Plans go awry when the kingpin offers $100 million to anyone who can free him.

