Saathiya

 Suhani Sharma (Rani), a pediatric student in Mumbai medical college, was unlike many girls of her age. A bookworm who spent most of her time studying pediatrics and doing night shifts practicing surgery, Suhani never thought she could fall in love. But one day, a chance meeting with a stranger Aditya (Vivek) on a morning train to Marine Lines changes it all. It is a case of love at first sight. The two get married. Suhani gladly accepts whatever Aditya has to offer # a dingy room with unplastered walls, rickety furniture and a makeshift kitchen. Financial insecurities and ego hassles begin to drive a wedge between the happily married couple and the duo part ways eventually. However, deep inside both of them there still lingers their platonic love. Both know they cannot live 'with or without' each other. Suhani Sharma belongs to a middle-class Bombay-based family, and lives with her journalist dad, Chandraprakash; mother, Shobana, and older sister, Dina. Since Dina and she are of marriageable age, Chandraprakash decides it is time they got married and settled down. He looks around for a boy from a good family, and to his luck, he finds not one - but two brothers - who are interested in marrying girls from the same family. The elder son approves of Dina, but when the time comes for Suhani to give her consent - she breaks the bombshell on her family - she is already married. What impact will her disclosure have on Dina, her dad, and her mom? Who has she married, and why did she keep it a secret? Suhani Sharma, a medical student in Bombay, doesn't believe in love, claiming that it was for people who had nothing better to do. Then one day, on the train she takes from her home to medical college, she meets Aditya Sehgal, a carefree young man, and is impressed by his buoyancy and joie de vivre. As much as she tries to hide it, she is magnetized toward him. The two fall deeply in love, but when their families meet to arrange the marriage, questions of class soon bring out the worst in everyone. Running away to shun their families and begin a new life together, the couple devote themselves to each other and vow to remain together no matter what. But soon reality begins to crack up their fairytale romance, as Aditya and Suhani begin to squabble over financial matters. Matters take a turn for the worse as the lovers are driven apart - or are they?

