Sabrina

 While she was growing up, Sabrina Fairchild spent more time ] perched in a tree watching the Larrabee family than she ever did on solid ground.As the chauffeur's daughter on their lavish Long Island estate, Sabrina was invisible behind the branches, but she knew them all below... There is Maude Larrabee, the modern matriarch of the Larrabee Corporation; Linus Larrabee, the serious older son who expanded a successful family business into the world's largest communications company; and David, the handsome, fun-loving Larrabee, who was the center of Sabrina's world. Until she was shipped off to Paris. After two years on the staff of Vogue magazine, Sabrina has returned to the Larrabee estate, but now she has blossomed into a beautiful and sophisticated woman. And she's standing in the way of a billion dollar deal. Sabrina Fairchild is the daughter of the Larrabee family chauffeur. Tha Larrabees are a wealthy and prominent Long Island family. Maude is the mother, Linus is the elder brother, who took charge of the company after his father died and has devoted his entire life to the company, and David is the younger brother, who has not worked a day in his life, and who has had numerous girlfriends, but Sabrina is nontheless enamored with him. But David just thinks of her as the frumpy daughter of the chauffeur. Maude arranges for her to go Paris and work in Vogue. Her fascination with David grows, David in the meantime, meets Elizabeth Tyson and tells Linus and Maude that she could be the one. What he doesn't know at first is that Linus wants to go into business with her parents so he encourages the relationship. But when David finds out, he is furious, Linus then tells him that it's about time that he contributes something and that this deal with Tysons is worth a billion dollars. David somehow proposes to her and she accepts. It's not long after that, that Sabrina returns. And David doesn't recognize her at first, cause she's now a little different. David is also entranced by her. Linus and Maude are concerned that the deal is in jeopardy, if Elizabeth or her parents find out about his pursuit of Sabrina. David injures himself, so Linus tries to distract Sabrina from him. but Linus finds himself feeling things he hasn't felt in years.

