Sabse Bada Khiladi

 Lallu (Akshay Kumar) is an orphan who was separated from his parents and his brother as a child and has been brought up by foster parents. He decides to travel to Bombay to look for a job and starts working as a loyal servant for rich businessman Jamna Das (Avtar Gill). One day he discovers Jamna Das's daughter Sunita (Mamta Kulkarni) drunk in a nightclub and takes her home. Jamna Das realizing how loyal Lallu is and how he never took advantage of Sunita in her drunken state decides to get Lallu married to Sunita. Sunita immediately refuses as she is in love with Amit (Mohnish Behl). When Jamna Das suddenly dies of a heart attack, his will and testament reveals that Sunita must get married to Lallu or she will not be entitled to any of his wealth and estate. Seeing no other option she marries Lallu but decides to have him killed with the help of Amit so that she can inherit all of her father's wealth for herself. Sunita and Amit succeed in their plan to kill Lallu by poisoning him and then putting him into a car and crashing it to make it look like he died in an accident. His death is considered suspicious and the case is assigned to Inspector Vijay Kumar (also Akshay Kumar) who also happens to be a lookalike of the supposedly deceased Lallu. Eventually it is discovered that Vijay is in fact the same person as Lallu and had faked his own death to put the blame on Amit. Why did he frame Amit? and will Amit be able to prove that Lallu and Inspector Vijay are same person? Lallu has been separated from his birth parents at a very young age, and lives with his foster father, who brings him up to become a young, honest and religious man. Lallu travels to Bombay city, looking for work, and comes to the rescue of Jamna Das. Das employs him in his organization, and subsequently asks him to get married to his spoiled daughter, Sunita, but Sunita loves Amit, and will have nothing to do with Lallu, who she finds uneducated and unsophisticated. Das has a heart attack and passes away, but changes his last will and testament, making it incumbent upon Sunita to marry Lallu or get nothing from his estate. Having no other option, Sunita marries Lallu, but continues to have her affair with Amit. Then Amit and Sunita plot to kill Lallu, and succeed. Inspector Vijay Kumar is assigned to this homicide and immediately suspects Sunita and Amit. Watch the suspense and the climax unroll as Vijay goes about gathering evidence that will tie the two to Lallu's murder, while they try to prove that Lallu is an non-existent entity.

