Salim

 A Muslim boy, SALIM, does small thefts to survive. An evening, running away from cops, he hides in a church and he stay there inside all night long. There, inside in a church he will find back a nearest condition to his age the church, at first a mysterious and a dark place, will become a protective and cozy mother. A Muslim boy, SALIM, does small thefts to survive. An evening, running away from cops, he hides in a church and he stay there all night long, there inside he will find back a nearest condition to his age first a mysterious and a dark place, will become a protective and cozy mother. The short try to focus the inter-cultural and inter-religious theme as a goal of our society. In this case, two religions are matched, the Muslim in the person of the young Salim and the Christian Catholic in the person of a Church where the boy hides in, the Lucca Cathedral. The Church, in this way, becomes a character interacting with Salim and vice-versa. Salim is protected and understood somehow from a father and mother at the same time, a Church in the most ancient and traditional way. When, early in the morning, the priest comes in to open the church and start to pray, Salim prays too. He's praying his God while the priest is praying another one but God feels and understand both who quite integrate their selves in a way. A Muslim boy, SALIM, does small thefts to survive. An evening, running away from cops, he hides in a church and he stay there all night long, there inside in a church he will find back a nearest condition to his age church, at first a mysterious and a dark place, will become a protective and cozy mother. Two religions are matched, the Muslim in the person of the young Salim and the Christian Catholic in the person of a Church where the boy hides in, the Lucca Cathedral. When, early in the morning, the priest comes in to and open the church and start to pray, Salim prays too. He's praying his God while the priest is praying another one but both seems to be heard and understood and in this way they quite integrate each other. Then, the priest discovers Salim hiding himself but they don't talk, Salim run away but he leaves something, something to thank.

