Samundar

 An honest police inspector (Navin Nischal) is killed by Raiszada Narsingh (Amrish Puri) and his henchman, Dhansukh (Paresh Rawal). Raiszada frames Rajeshwarnath (Anupam Kher) for this killing, and brings up the son of the police inspector, Ajit (Sunny Deol), so that Ajit can avenge his father's death by killing Rajeshwarnath. Raiszada wants the now grown-up Ajit to fall for beautiful Nisha (Roshni), but Ajit gives his heart to Anjali (Poonam Dhillon), who is the sister-in-law of none other than Rajeshwarnath. With Rajeshwar all set to clear his sentence, he will have to face the contained wrath of Ajit, and of the plan Raiszada and his men have for him. Rajeshwar Nath has evidence about a smuggler Raiszada Narsingh and is going to provide this to the police but before he does so he finds himself framed for the murder of senior police officer, Surajbhan but manage to endued the police, relocates to some faraway place and change his name to Girija Shankar. Raiszada brings up Surajbhan young son, Ajit. Years later the boy has now grown up and falls in love with Rajeshwar's sister-in-law, Anjali. Raiszada still wants to grant revenge from Rajeshwar Nath and will use Ajit as pawn if needed to carry out this deadly task. Police inspector Surajbhan suspects Raiszada Narsingh as a hardcore criminal don but has been unable to gather material evidence to arrest him. Rajeshwar Nath has this evidence and he does provide this to the police, but in the process Raiszada along with the help of his henchman, Hansu has Rajeshwar brother killed, has Surajbhan killed and abducted his son, Ajit. Years later Ajit has now grown up, but is still kept captive by Raiszada. Raiszada would like Ajit to take revenge on Rajeshwar Nath whose name is now Girija Shankar and he does agree to do so because he believes that Girija Shankar is the killer of his father. Now there is great danger for Girija Shankar as Ajit wants to sought revenge from him and Raiszada himself has some personal scores to settle with him.

