Sanam Bewafa

 Traditional rivals arise between two Pathan families who were at daggers drawn for many generations. Brought up with immense love and affection Rukhsar, a beautiful damsel is Fatehkhan's daughter. Rukhsar with a dear friend Kanchan and other friends go to a hill for an outing. As the luck would have it, Rukhsar gets attracted to Salman, the rider is Sherkhan's son. Sherkhan.....the eternal enemy of Fatehkhan. Love blossomed admist all adversities. On knowing the truth, Fatehkhan finds his wrath too much to control. On the other hand, Sherkhan is extremely happy to know that his son is in love with his worst enemy's daughter and promises Salman that he will get him married to Rukhsar. The marriage is settled after great difficulties. On the marriage occasion Fatehkhan places an incredible demand in Haque-Meher. Sherkhan is dumbfounded and shocked but gives in for his sons happiness. Hurt by the insult, Sherkhan retaliates by throwing Rukhsar out of the house next morning after paying the agreed Haque-Meher. On seeing Rukhsar back, her people are numbed with shock. Fatehkhan goes to Sherkhan's house but he refuses to relent unless Fateh khan begs for his pardon before the whole community. Not to be intimidated, Fatehkhan challenges Sherkhan that a day would come when he would come begging him for Rukhsar and only then he would send her. The two innocent continued to suffer at the hands of their fathers but Sherkhan and Fatehkhan remained adament. Blood flowed killings continued. Although neighbors Fateh Khan and Sher Khan are sworn enemies which brew from generation to generation. When Sher Khan Son Salman and Fateh Khan Daughter Ruksar fall in love both the families give there consent to there children's marriage but on the wedding day Fateh Khan demands huge sums of money as dowry to which Sher Khan agree and the marriage of Salman and Ruksar is celebrated with great pomp and ceremony. The morning after the wedding Ruksar is asked to leave her in law house. After Ruksar return home Fateh Khan swears to kill Sher Khan and thus the conflicts continue between both families even after Ruksar give birth to a baby boy. Salman (Salman Khan) accidentally meets with Ruksar (Chandni) and eventually after a few misunderstandings, both fall in love. Sher Khan (Danny Denzongpa), Salman's dad, and Fateh Khan (Pran), Ruksar's dad, though neighbours, despise each other, to the extent of trying to kill each other families. While Sher Khan is ready to get Salman married to Ruksar, Fateh Khan opposes this, and demands a huge sum of wealth and money from Sher Khan, to which Sher Khan agrees. And so both Ruksar and Salman get married. It was then both Ruksar and Salman come to know the sinister motive behind Sher Khan's willingness to this marriage.

