Sandwich

 Sher Singh lives with his mother and handicapped sister in Punjab but moves to Mumbai, changes his name to Shekhar, meets Nisha and falls in love. When his mother asks him to return, he explains to Nisha that if he takes her before they are married the people would make an issue of it and promises to return in 4 days. On his return, Shekhar is surprised to find out that the Zamindar's son is ready to marry his sister. His mother tells him that the Zamindar's daughter Sweety loves him from their childhood days. The Zamindar had approached his mother to fix the marriage but she told him that she cannot fix her son's wedding until her daughter is married. Sweety's brother agreed to the marriage for as his mother says, brothers are those who sacrifice everything for their sister's happiness. He has no alternative and marries Sweety. So, during the day Sher Singh stays with Sweety and at night Shekhar stays with Nisha. One day both of them meet Sher Singh and tell him that he cannot go till Shekhar arrives! At that time a person makes an entry who looks like Sher Singh claiming to be Shekhar - what is going on? Swami Trilokanand predicts that a devotee, Sher Singh alias Shekar will get married to two different women. Sher Singh scoffs at this, and only wants to get married to Bombay-based Marathi-speaking beauty, Nisha. Then Sher gets summoned to his hometown in Punjab, where his disabled sister is getting married to a young man named Harpreet. Upon arrival, Sher is told that Harpreet is only marrying his sister on the condition that he marry his sister, Sweety. Unable to refuse, Sher gets married to Sweety, spends several nights with her and returns to Bombay and is told that Nisha is getting married to Vicky Chopra without her consent. Sher gallantly steps in and marries Nisha. Sweety and his mom re-locate to Bombay and Sher leads a double life with his wives. Nisha and Sweety both get pregnant and give birth to two look-alike sons, Tuktuk, and Tony. When the children grow up, they find out that their dad is deceiving them, and matters come to a head where Sher actually admits that he did commit bigamy - only to be confronted with a real look-alike of his - who claims to be Nisha's husband. The question remains, who is this intruder?

