Sans famille

 Wandermusiker Vitalis kauft der gütigen Mutter Barberin das Findelkind REmi ab und zieht mit dem Jungen, drei Hunden und einem Affen durchs Land. Eine gehbehinderte Gräfin beauftragt zur gleichen Zeit ihren Schwager, ihr einst entführtes Kind zu suchen. Doch dieser beauftragt einen zwielichtigen Kerl, das Kind zu töten. Währenddessen wird der Wandermusiker von einer schönen Musikerin als einsitiger Opernstar Vitalo Pedrotti wiedererkannt. Die schöne Dame konfrontiert ihn mit seiner Vergangenheit - sie kannte ihn von der Scala di Milano - und zeigt sich spendabel. Doch der kleine Remi ist derweil in größter Gefahr... Die Neuverfilmung des Klassikers von Hector Malot läßt den Wandermusiker nicht in der Halbzeit sterben, sondern macht ihn zur Hauptfigur. Young REmi, a foundling, lives on the farm run by his impoverished foster parents. When their money runs out, unbeknown to his foster-mother, REmi is sold by his hard-hearted foster father to an old street performer named Vitalis. Vitalis was once a famous opera singer, but became destitute after a tragic love affair. Ever since that time he has been a traveling showman, touring the country with three dogs and a monkey. REmi is given a warm welcome by the strange troupe, and actually learns how to read and write. On a houseboat REmi meets Johanna von Straussberg, a melancholy German woman, whom he cheers up with his jokes. She wants him to stay with her, but Vitalis is eager to keep REmi to himself. The troupe thus continues on its way, unaware that Johanna is actually REmi's mother. Johanna's evil brother-in-law Georg is all to well aware of the truth, however. After his brother's death he had little REmi abandoned in order to marry Johanna and inherit her fortune. He now has REmi followed by his sidekick Charles. Before REmi manages to outwit these opponents and finally return to his mother he goes through a whole host of adventures brutal Garofoli, who forces children to beg and he dodges several attempts on his life. On the positive side he falls in love with Charles's niece Lisa, and also becomes firm friends with a young musical prodigy named Mattia. When everything has finally turned out for the best, and the evil Georg has been killed by Vitalis after a fight, the happy end seems perfect # but Vitalis dies from his injuries.

