Saturday's Millions

 Jim Fowler is Western University's football hero and is constantly besieged by reporters. Jim's father Ezra comes to visit him and becomes reacquainted with an old Western football chum, Mr. Chandler, who happens to be the father of Jim's girlfriend Joan. Jim keeps his roommate, Andy, busy by sending him to collect money on their laundry concessions business, even though Andy is desperately trying to meet his girlfriend Thelma, who has just come for a visit. When the coach tells Chandler and Fowler that Jim is nervous and erratic, Chandler invites Jim to spend the night before the big game at his home. After-dinner conversation reveals that Jim sees football as merely a business, and feels devalued by his popularity because he thinks people are only interested in him because of football, not for who he is. Joan is disillusioned that Jim treats football as a racket, and the fathers are disappointed because they sincerely love the game. Later, Joan tries to prove her sincere love for Jim with a kiss, but he refuses to express his love for her because he is convinced that she will forget him in six months. She is so offended that she vows never to see him again. Later, Jim gets drunk, even though he is breaking training, and goes to a roadhouse to see Marie, a woman who he believes knows nothing of his football career. Marie asks Jim not to play in the next game because the roadhouse owner, Felix, has bet $6,000 on the opposing team. Felix enters and tells Jim that he will release a sordid story about him and Marie if Jim plays, which will ruin his reputation because he and Marie are actually married. Jim hits Felix and breaks his hand, but when Felix comes at him with a knife, Andy and his father come to his rescue, and with Joan, they all return home. Jim refuses to allow the doctor to put a cast on his hand and insists that the doctor not reveal his condition to the coach. The day of the game, Jim gives Andy the task of keeping nosy reporter Myra Blane busy during the game. Although he is in severe pain, Jim plays the game, but the team immediately falls behind. Team captain Alan, who is a rival for Joan's affection, decides to stand by Jim and keep him in the game, but when Jim drops the final pass, Western loses. In the locker room, Jim's teammates are dejected, but to his surprise, they all agree that they would rather lose a game with him, than win one without him.

