School Ties

 David Green is brought into a prestigious 1950s school to help their football team to beat the school's old rivals. David, however, is from a working class background, so he isn't really "one of them", but he's very successful at making friends. David is a Jew, and has to keep this a secret from his friends for fear of being rejected. Set in the 1950s, School Ties sheds light on the "true" nature of the old boys club. David Green (Fraser), a supreme athlete, is granted admission to an exclusive boarding school reserved for the country's blue bloods. Green hopes to use the school to get into Harvard, while the school uses him to win football championships. Everything is going as planned until a spoiled classmate Charlie Dillon (Damon), finds out that Green is Jewish. Given the time and circumstances, this does not sit well with his classmates. The movie comes to a climax when the classmates are forced to choose between Green and Dillon in a cheating scandal. The movie really highlights the religious inequality that took place at that time in America. One also comes to realize how the elite maintain their status and privilege by attending schools such as the one in this movie. David Greene (Brendan Fraser), of Jewish faith, is enrolled in the exclusive St. Matthews School, and hopes to gain admission in Harvard after graduating. When he hears comments against Jews and Communists he does not disclose is background to anyone. He becomes immensely popular after he befriends Charlie Dillon (Matt Damon), and uses his athletic skills to take the school to football championships. Charlie's girlfriend, Sally Wheeler (Amy Locane), is attracted to him much to Charlie's displeasure. An embittered Charlie, after being dumped by Sally, finds out David's background and publicly exposes him - leading to violence, and David's alienation from everyone. Then David's world will be shattered when he will be accused of violating 'The Honor Code' paving the way for his expulsion.

