Seeking Happily Ever After

 Seeking Happily Ever After is a feature-length documentary that reveals how millions of 30-something single women are busting cultural norms while redefining happy endings for themselves. At this unique moment in history, there are over 6.3 million single women in their 30s in the U.S. For the past several years, the media has painted them as either desperate to get married or so career-driven that they "don't need a man." This documentary will finally allow women to speak up collectively about the realities of what seeking "Happily Ever After" looks like in today's climate. We'll see the pressures they face, the hopes they have, and the ups and downs of giving themselves permission to avoid settling when it comes to picking a spouse. This hip and illuminating film will explore how women are changing finance, entertainment, pop culture and politics--and the way girls and women redefine "Happily Ever After." How ready are you for a smart, entertaining, funny documentary that goes underneath the bubbly surface of Sex and the City? Our documentary "Seeking Happily Ever After" examines the plight of the single and 30 something woman and asks if it's time to start redefining our "Happily Ever After". From fairy-tales to vibrators and online dating to IVF - no holds barred. Are women too picky? Is it the financial equality or the internet age that keeps these women single? Experts chime in with our single men and women as we uncover what it is to be single and 30 today. We talked to single men and women from around the country and experts such as Pattie Stanger (Millionaire Matchmaker) and Greg Behrendt (He's Just Not That Into You) for their thoughts. No matter your dating status, everyone has something to say about this film - a film that we made for sisters around the world is being heralded by men and women alike. After three years of filmmaking we're ready to bring this exciting documentary to a theater near you - but we need a little help to the finish line. Seeking Happily Ever After was inspired by a US Census stating there are more single women in their 30s by choice today, than at any other time in history - over 6.3 million single women in the U.S. to put a number on it. We explored this phenomenon by letting these women - who have been painted by the media as either desperate to get married or so career-driven that they "don't need a man" - speak for themselves.

