Seeta Aur Geeta

 Seeta is ill treated by her cruel aunt Kaushalya. Fed up with her atrocities, one day Seeta leaves the house and runs into Raka. Meanwhile, her look-alike, Geeta, is apprehended by the police and brought to Kaushalya. Geeta, unlike Seeta, is unafraid and soon assumes control of the house. But as fate could have it, Geeta's cover is blown and she is arrested for impersonation. Seeta, in the meantime, is unable to meet life's harsh demands, including dancing in the street, as was Geeta and Raka's profession. As Geeta is got rid off, Kaushalya locates Seeta and brings her back to her life of mute slavery, abuse, and confinement. Seeta lives with her grandma and her cruel aunt Kaushalya, uncle Badrinath, Kaushalya's brother, Ranjeet, and daughter Sheela. Although Seeta is wealthy and owns the property, she is treated worse than a servant by Kaushalya, and Sheela. Ranjeet lusts after her, and uncle Badrinath is a silent spectator. The only emotional support for Seeta is her grandma, who is handicapped and wheelchair bound. One day Seeta, after being beaten by Kaushalya and Ranjeet, for purportedly stealing Ranjeet's wallet, leaves the house, and runs into a man called Raka who calls her "Geeta". She is also introduced to a woman, who calls her daughter. Perplexed at this situation, but having no choice, she stays on. Meanwhile, her look-alike, Geeta, is apprehended by the police and brought back to uncle and aunt. Geeta, unlike Seeta, is unafraid and soon assumes control of the house, and reduces her aunt, cousin, and Ranjeet to mere underlings and servants at her command. She also falls in love with wealthy Dr. Ravi. But as fate could have it, Geeta's cover is blown and she is arrested for impersonation. Seeta, in the meantime, is unable to meet life's harsh demands, including dancing in the street, as was Geeta's and Raka's profession. As Geeta is got rid off, the aunt and Ranjeet locate Seeta and bring her back to her life of mute slavery, abuse, and confinement.

