Serpico

 Serpico is a cop in the early 1970s. Unlike all his colleagues, he refuses a share of the money that the cops routinely extort from local criminals. Nobody wants to work with Serpico, and he's in constant danger of being placed in life threatening positions by his "partners". Nothing seems to get done even when he goes to the highest of authorities. Despite the dangers he finds himself in, he still refuses to 'go with the flow', in the hope that one day, the truth will be known. Frank Serpico is a young, inexperienced cop who starts out on patrol. Later, he starts to work as an undercover cop who busts all sorts of criminals, but mostly drug dealers and pushers. Since Serpico is a young man living in the 70's, he lives as one. His image, based on how others look on him, shows him as just a 'hippie' and the criminals he busts have no idea he is really an undercover officer. Everything is working out well, except the money situation. Serpico refuses to accept money, as the other officers do. He feels this isn't right, and wants to expose the situation. Who he thought were his friends now turn into his enemies when Serpico takes the stand on a grand jury investigation. He continues to work undercover, and his life is placed into jeopardy at the hands of his colleagues. Biopic of the New York City detective whose anti-corruption efforts in the 1960s and early 1970s led to the creation of the Knapp Commission and the uncovering of widespread corruption of police officials at all levels. All of his life, Frank Serpico had wanted to be a policeman. He learns at an early stage in his career however that even the cop on the beat is somewhat corrupt accepting free meals and the like. As he advances in his career he finds that corruption is rampant, particularly in the Plainclothes Division, where they collect more in graft that they do in salary. His refusal to take any money puts him in bad stead with his colleagues to the point that his life may be in danger. Transferred to the Narcotics Squad, he is shot by a drug dealer when his partners fail to support him. Serpico resigned from the NYPD in 1972.

