Service Safari

 Service Safari the wonders of Uganda and experience the thrill of Safari. Learn about the extreme poverty that makes Uganda one of the poorest countries on earth yet embrace the richness of African culture. Discover Mustard Seed Academy, a school in the town of Lukaya founded by two retired educators. See the accomplishments of Real Partners Uganda and learn how one couple's vision and determination has transformed a town. Learn how through American sponsorship and support, the school is rapidly becoming a model for the country and working to break the cycle of poverty. Witness liberation through education, become enchanted by the students and celebrate the achievements. Join the Mission of Hope! Service Safari who took a dream vacation on safari in East Africa in 2003, and after experiencing the wonders of Uganda's wild they stopped in a small town called Lukaya and were "captured" by the children. They returned to the United States and formed a non-profit organization called Real Partners Uganda and founded Mustard Seed Academy which began to serve poor and orphaned children. The school is funded by American sponsors who are providing education, food, clothing and health care to over three hundred primary school children who might otherwise be suffering on the streets. Meet the dedicated teaching staff who have worked to create a model school to educate the children of Lukaya. Go into the classrooms and experience the enthusiasm and joy of the students of Mustard Seed. Witness the accomplishments, view the mission projects and celebrate the achievements as you discover this journey into service. Student filmmaker Luke Culleny's beautiful documentary contrasts the breath-taking wonders of wild Uganda with the crushing poverty that surrounds it. See how the cycle of poverty is being broken by introducing simple, yet innovative new technologies that will one day make the school self-sustaining. The film's original song "Child of Lukaya" captures the poignancy and hope of third world children struggling for a better life. Filmed largely on site in Uganda during February 2010, Service Safari awareness and support for the ongoing work of Real Partners Uganda Incorperated. Service Safari who took a dream vacation on safari in East Africa in 2003, and after experiencing the wonders of Uganda's wild they stopped in a small town called Lukaya and were "captured" by the children. They returned to the United States and formed a non-profit organization called Real Partners Uganda and founded Mustard Seed Academy which began to serve poor and orphaned children. The school is funded by American sponsors who are providing education, food, clothing and health care to over three hundred primary school children who might otherwise be suffering on the streets. Meet the dedicated teaching staff who have worked to create a model school to educate the children of Lukaya. Go into the classrooms and experience the enthusiasm and joy of the students of Mustard Seed. Witness the accomplishments, view the mission projects and celebrate the achievements as you discover this journey into service. Student filmmaker Luke Culleny's beautiful documentary contrasts the breath-taking wonders of wild Uganda with the crushing poverty that surrounds it. See how the cycle of poverty is being broken by introducing simple, yet innovative new technologies that will one day make the school self-sustaining. The film's original song "Child of Lukaya" captures the poignancy and hope of third world children struggling for a better life. Filmed largely on site in Uganda during February 2010, Service Safari awareness and support for the ongoing work of Real Partners Uganda Incorperated.

