Shaadi No. 1

 Kothari finds himself in a jam when his hair-growth, water colors for students, and Agarbatti products misfire resulting in lawsuits. He decides to kill himself but is saved by three men him alternate ideas to market his products with such positive results that he hires them. He finds out that all three married to Bhavna (who is so engrossed with Bhagwan Shri Tirupathi that she has no time for her Pati); Diya (a busy film actress); and Sonia (an equally busy lawyer) respectively but are sex-starved. He confides in them that he has three unmarried daughters, Rekha, Madhuri, and Dimple, who would prefer to fall in love with and then get married. He asks the trio to woo and then betray them so that he can get them married to boys of his choice. The trio agree to do so and re-locate abroad to meet the three females. To their pleasant surprise they turn out to be real beauties and they decide to woo and keep them. Aided by Kothari himself the trio have no problems in making the nymphets falls in love with them, and that done they return home to find that their respective wives have a newfound brother, Lakhwinder Singh Lakha. The Kothari sisters are unable to keep away from their lovers and follow them back home and the three males meet them on the sly. Hilarious complications, with a touch of popular Filmi dialogs and references to old Bollywood hits, arise when Lakhwinder discovers their dirty little secret and is all set to tell their respective wives leaving the hapless friends no choice but to decide to do away with him. Watch what happens after they finally succeed in doing away with Lakhwinder. Raj loves to paint the town red, maroon and crimson too. Bhavana prefers the colors of spirituality. He wants fun 'n' frolic in the bed room, she prefers pooja paath in the prayer room. Veer moves to a flirt beat. Diya's heart beats for acting. He wants to rock 'n' roll in but the only role she will consider is the one in films. Aryan is god's gift to women wanting love. Sonia is a life line for women wanting divorce. He will appeal to woo her in bed. Meanwhile, no one knew that three bomb shells Madhuri, Dimple and Rekha will have an explosion blast with Raj, Veer and Aryan. And most important of all is the Kabab Mein Haddi Lucky Bhaiya aka Lukhwinder Singh. He will add namak mirchi to the perfect kichadi cooked by the guys and make their wives suspicious and their lives suicidal.

