Shaan

 Shaan tells the story of DCP Shiv Kumar an honest, brave and upright police man. He live in the country with his wife, a daughter and two brothers Ravi and Vijay who are con men to the highest extent and would do anything to th rick people, there cunningness, one day got them into trouble with the law where there brother was forced to arrest them and feel no pity for them. However they were release a few days later since they were keeping a low profile in jail. Shiv Kumar decides to investigate against gangster and smuggler Shakal and his men where he was killed in his line of duty. After there brother's death Ravi and Vijay decides to mend there ways where they were persuade by marksman, circus master and an old enemy of Shiv, Rakesh, who decides to mend his ways and join hand with the two legendary to destroy Shakal who keeps a man-eating crocodile on an island far apart. DSP Shiv Kumar (Sunil Dutt) is a diligent and honest police officer in Bombay, India. He lives with his wife (Raakhee), a son, and two wayward brothers, Ravi (Shashi Kapoor), and Vijay (Amitabh Bachchan), who are con-men, and will anything for a quick buck. When Shiv Kumar is killed, his wife widowed, Ravi and Vijay give up their waywardness, and non-chalant way of life, to find out who killed their brother, and avenge his death. Little do they know that the very forces that assist them now, will turn them in to the man who killed their brother - none other than the seemingly invincible Shakal (Kulbhushan Kharbanda). Honest, brave and upright DCP Shiv Kumar, while carrying out his investigations against gangster, Shakal and his gang is mysteriously killed. Leaving two reformed brothers to average his death. But both seem to have no clue on how or who would have killed there brother until they reached up with an old enemy of Shiv, Rakesh, who tells them facts about Shakal and his gang and how he is being used as pawn by Shakal. The trio now agrees to work together and join hands to destroy Shakal.

