Shades of Brooklyn Vol. 1

 Volume 1 examines the theme of sexuality and our youth. Our story begins with Temporary Insanity, in which two working-class subway commuters find themselves disturbed by the rambunctious and intrusive banter of a group of high school boys coming home from basketball practice. The boys become concerned when they realize that one of their members, Lashaun, is distant and withdrawn. Finally, as Lashaun is beginning to confide in his friends that he is questioning his own contradictory behavior, the two older commuters begin to find themselves interested in Lashaun's relatable story. Karma finds Gus, a 40-something-year-old homeowner, taking a break from doing some home repair, when he is interrupted by his dramatic neighbor, Lonny, who is seeking advice. Lonny, a 30-something-year-old father, begins to retell a conversation with his 6-year-old daughter where she asks him about sex. Lonny, clearly wanting to avoid the subject, neglects to give his daughter straight forward answers, and finds that he has dug a deeper hole than the one he originally found himself in, much to Gus's amusement. The Longest Walk follows 17-year-old young woman, Allison, who has gotten dressed up to impress a boy (Lashaun), which is a first for her. As she walks to the train station she begins to get compliments from some of the men in her neighborhood, which she finds surprisingly flattering. But as she makes her way, the comments and looks become more imposing and disgusting, to the point that Allison starts to become shell shocked. She discovers that although she sees herself as a young girl, the world has already to see her as a woman. Temporary Insanity and coerce their reluctant friend to dish his girl problems. Karma Meanwhile on a Bed-Stuy stoop, an immature father is trying to refute the advice of an older friend after he explains how he blundered his way through a "sex talk" with his 6-year-old daughter. The Longest Walk impress a boy, 17-year-old Allison has gotten all dolled up for the first time and discovers that the world no longer sees her as a little girl, but as a grown woman. Welcome to Brooklyn!

