Shahenshah

 An underworld criminal name JK is involved in terrorism as well as criminal activities, he also intervene in government affairs and is a crook in the book. When an honest police inspector Srivastav attempts to expose JK he is framed and evidences are tampered with so he is unable to prove his innocence, an as a result he commit suicide by hanging himself leaving his wife and son behind. Years later his son grows up an become a police inspector like his dad; inspector Vijay Kumar Srivastav; but is very much different from his dad by turning a blind eye to criminal activities, never serious with his job and accept huge sums of money to let off petty crooks. The talk of the town is a man in black clothing who calls himself "Shahenshah"; he operates as a Judge in the night, giving a verdict against his victims and killing them in a Executioner style. It looks like this man will get his hands on JK before the police does and might as well ruin the image of corrupt police inspector like Vijay Kumar Srivastav. An Indian Batman, if you like, Vijay Srivastav leads a dual life - (seemingly) cowardly and corrupt cop by day and ridiculously costumed vigilante at night. His activities make life miserable for the scheming villains who were incidentally also responsible for his father's death. Generous servings of action, melodrama and cacophonous music culminating in a suitably over-the-top climax. Inspector Srivastav is framed by a wily and cunning gangster, J.K., and unable to prove his innocence, hangs himself, leaving behind his wife, and son, Vijay. Years later, Vijay has grown up and has joined the police force as an Inspector. Unlike his dad, he is corrupt and does accept bribes to turn a nelson's eye to crime. The City Police are assigned the task of apprehending a customed man called "Shahenshah", who operates at night and targets, tries and kills gangsters in a "Judge and Executioner "style. No one knows the real identity of Shahenshah, as he is feared by the police department, and respected by the poor and middle-class.

