Shakespeare in Love

 Will Shakespeare is a known but struggling poet, playwright and actor who not only has sold his next play to both Philip Henslow and Richard Burbidge but now faces a far more difficult problem yet to begin writing. He is in search of his muse, the woman who will inspire him but all attempts fail him until he meets the beautiful Viola de Lesseps. She loves the theatre and would like nothing more than to take to the stage but is forbidden from doing so as only men can be actors. She is also a great admirer of Shakespeare's works. Dressing as a man and going by the name of Thomas Kent, she auditions and is ideal for a part in his next play. Shakespeare soon see through her disguise and they begin a love affair, one they know cannot end happily for them as he is already married and she has been promised to the dour Lord Wessex. As the company rehearses his new play, Will and Viola's love is transferred to the written page leading to the masterpiece that is Romeo and Juliet. Romantic comedy set in London in the late 16th century William Shakespeare struggles with his latest work "Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter". A great fan of Shakespeare's plays is young, wealthy Viola who is about to be married to the cold-hearted Lord Wessex, but constantly dreams of becoming an actress. Women were not allowed to act on stage at that time (female roles were played by men, too), but dressed up as a boy, Viola successfully auditions for the part of Romeo. Soon she and William are caught in a forbidden romance that provides rich inspiration for his play. La storia, un pò realtà e molta fantasia, ci riporta indietro ai tempi in cui William Shakespeare, dopo aver scritto il "Tito Andronico", e in crisi di ispirazione. Fra l'altro, e afflitto anche da problemi finanziari e sentimentali. Il grande William si muove in strade buie e sporche di una Londra del 1593, in cerca di compagnia femminile e di soldi da scroccare. Ha promesso a due produttori lo stesso dramma ("Romeo ed Ethel, la figlia del pirata"); ma Cristopher Marlowe, poeta molto in voga, gli consiglia invece di parlare di due innamorati che non possono amarsi a causa delle loro famiglie unisce quella reale, quando Shakespeare conosce Viola de Lesseps, ricca ed affascinante promessa sposa di un nobile. Per i due e il colpo di fulmine! Si amano alla follia e lei e disposta anche a travestirsi da uomo pur di recitare in teatro affianco all'uomo che ama. Alla fine, l'opera andrà in scena con enorme successo, ma la ragazza dovrà sposare il nobile e partire con lui per le Americhe.

