She's the Man

 Here's the thing Viola's soccer team at Cornwall got cut so she wanted to join the boys team, but they did not allow. So she thought "If you can't join them, beat them". And so she does, she disguises herself as her twin brother Sebastian, and goes out for the Illyria Boys Soccer Team. But she didn't plan falling in love with her roommate Duke. But the thing is Duke has his eye on Olivia. The thing that makes matters worse Olivia starts to fall for Sebastian who actually is a girl and she/he has a sensitive side. If things couldn't get more problematical the real Sebastian (who is in London working on his music) comes home early. He arrives on campus and has no clue that he was replaced by his twin sister. A modernization of "Twelfth Night, or What You Will." Duke likes Olivia but she does not return his love. Viola's soccer team is canceled so she goes to another school disguised as her twin brother to play, where she meets Duke. A movie worth of hilarity ensues. When Viola learns her soccer team is no more, she wants to join the boys team. The coach says no, so she dresses up like her brother Sebastian, and goes to his school for two weeks and pretends to be him. Her roommate Duke also plays soccer, and has a serious crush on a girl named Olivia. Olivia likes Sebastien, who is really Viola who really likes Duke. When Sebastian comes home, everything gets complicated! She's the Man is about Viola Hastings, a girl who's passion is Soccer. She then finds out that the Girl's Soccer Program gets canceled at her school. She then tries out for the guy's team, but they tell her that girls aren't good enough. So when Viola finds out that her fraternal twin brother, Sebastian is sneaking off to London for a music tour, instead of going to Illyria School, Viola decides that she can take his place, and pretend to be him, to be able to try out for their Soccer program. After a makeover and help from her friends, she gets to Illyria, but then finds that she likes her room mate, Duke. Things get messy when a girl who Duke likes falls for Sebastian, who is Viola in disguise. Everything falls apart when Sebastian goes home from London early, and things start to fall to pieces.

