Sholay

 Sholay means fire. In this particular movie, a Police Officer, who family was killed by a bandit named Gabbar Singh, decides to fight fire with fire and recruits two convicts, Jai and Veeru. He approaches them in jail, puts the proposal in front of them, and they agree to bring in Gabbar Singh alive - for a hefty price. After their discharge from jail, they travel by train to the village where the Police Officer lives - now with only his widowed daughter-in-law. The three band together to fight one of the most elusive and dreaded bandits of all time. Will the two ex-cons be able to bring Gabbar alive to the Police Officer? A retired police officer, Thakur Baldev Singh gets two convicts, Jaidev and Veeru, to capture Gabbar Singh, a bandit chief who has been terrorizing the small village of Ramgarh. Gabbar had massacred Thakur's entire family and even had his arms cut off. Unable to take revenge himself, Thakur Baldev Singh recruits Veeru and Jaidev, both small time crooks. Both agree to capture Gabbar Singh live and hand him over to Baldev Singh. Things do not go as planned. Veeru falls for the local horse carriage driver Basanti; and Jai starts to have romantic feelings for Baldev Singh's widowed daughter-in-law, Radha. To make matters worse, Gabbar has sworn to kill both Jai and Veeru, and holds Basanti as a hostage, to lure them to him. But Jaidev and Veeru was so clever that no bandit could outwit the two. In order to avenge the brutal killings of his family members against a notorious bandit Gabbar Singh; ex-police inspector Thakur Baldev Singh recruits two convicts Veeru and Jaidev. Thakur brings Jaidev and Veeru and logged there stay in a small Indian village that is the main target of Gabbar. When Gabbar learns that Jai and Veeru have come to kill him he begins to kill one by one all the residents of that village. Now these two con-men and Thakur will be force to quit there mission or continue risking the lives of each and every villagers. Two convicts and small time crooks (Amitabh and Dharmendra) are picked by Thakur (Sanjeev Kumar), a former police officer, to seek vengeance on the dangerous bandit Gabbar Singh (Amjad Khan) because he killed all of Thakur's family (except a daughter-in-law) and maimed Thakur for life.This was a result of an earlier incident in which Thakur -- acting as a police officer -- had captured Gabbar and helped in his conviction in the court. Gabbar managed to escape and wreaked havoc in Thakur's life. Now Thakur seeks the help of these two crooks to get Gabbar. The ensuing action makes for one of the most exciting Indian movies made to date. Thakur Baldev Singh (Sanjeev Kumar) seeks to avenge the cold-blooded massacre of his family at the hands of notorious bandit Gabbar Singh (Amjad Khan). Since he is unable to do so on his own, he recruits Veeru (Dharmendra) and Jaidev (Amitabh Bachchan). Both are jailbirds and have in and out of various jails. They are reportedly known to carry out any work provided the compensation is right. Both agree to capture Gabbar Singh live and hand him over to Baldev Singh. Things do not go as planned. Veeru falls for the local horse carriage driver Basanti (Hema Malini); and Jai starts to have romantic feelings for Baldev Singh's widowed daughter-in-law, Radha (Jaya Bhaduri). To make matters worse, Gabbar has sworn to kill both Jai and Veeru, and holds Basanti as a hostage, to lure them to him Police inspector Thakur Baldev Singh has been assigned the task of nabbing a bandit named Gabbar Singh, he does so and manage to get promoted. But Gabbar escaped from jail and as a result massacre Baldev's entire family and has both his arms chopped off. Years later Baldev has now retired but still wants to average his family's death and finds he cannot do this job alone, decides to recruit two crooks, Jaidev and Veeru, who are jailbirds and have been in and out of various jails but on a police encounter with Baldev, years back both proves to be brave and accept this assignment for a lump sum of money and promises Baldev that Gabbar will be capture and be hand over to him alive not knowing that both will reach the same fate as Baldev as Gabbar now has more high-tech and up-to-date weapons to eliminate his enemies.

