Silsila

 Although orphaned at very young ages, Scriptwriter Amit and military pilot Shekhar are brothers and also very good friends. The latter is happily engaged to Shobha, while the former has just fallen in love with pretty, young Chandni. But tragedy strikes when Shekhar's plane is shot down in Kashmir. Amit feels it to be his obligation to leave the girl he loves and marry his brother's pregnant fiancEe instead. But when, by an unexpected turn, Amit and the now also married Chandni meet again, their love for each other proves to be stronger than their marital vows. Scriptwriter Amit and military pilot Shekhar are brothers and also very good friends. The latter is happily engaged to Shobha, while the former has just fallen in love with pretty, young Chandni. But tragedy strikes when Shekhar's plane is shot down in Kashmir. Amit feels it to be his obligation to leave the girl he loves and marry his brother's pregnant fiancEe instead. But when, by an unexpected turn, Amit and the now also married Chandni meet again, their love for each other proves to be stronger than their marital vows... Although orphaned at very young ages, Shekhar and Amit Malhotra are survivors and lead independent lives with Shekhar being a Squadron Leader with the Indian Air Force, and Amit a struggling writer. While Shekhar has fallen in love with lovely Shobha, Amit woos an attractive Chandni. Both brothers plan to marry together. But fate has something much worse in store for them when Shekhar is killed in a plane crash, leaving behind a pregnant and devastated Shobha. Taking pity on Shobha's plight, Amit marries her and writes to Chandni to forget him. This news breaks Chandni's heart, and she goes on to marry Dr. V.K. Anand, who is very much in love with her. Tragedy strikes once more, and Shobha loses her child in a car accident. With no child to tie them together, both drift apart, Amit meets Chandni and they secretly rekindle their romance. They meet on the sly, until one day when Chandni accidentally hits a passer-by. The police get involved, but Amit manages to hush the matter up. But their secret meetings will no longer be secret anymore for the Police Inspector in charge of this accident is none other than Shobha's cousin, Kulbhushan, and he is determined to expose Amit's affair with Chandni.

