Silsila Hai Pyar Ka

 Vanshika Mathur (Karishma Kapoor), an orphan who lives with her aunt (Aroona Irani), is a simple middle class girl desperately in search of a job. Eventually she gets a job with Mr. Sinha (Alok Nath), a very successful businessman. Mr. Sinha is a widower who has a son Abhay (Chandrachur Singh). Abhay has grown up with his maternal uncle, Rakesh (Shakti Kapoor), a four-time divorce, whose motto is 'Stay unmarried and lead a Bohemian lifestyle'. Abhay is strongly influenced by his uncle and has grown into a flamboyant, arrogant, spoilt brat who has never put in a day's work at the family business.Mr. Sinha is obviously perturbed to the point of distress by the lifestyle his son leads - party all night and sleep through the day. He is determined to get his son back on the right track. In order to get Abhay into the office he entices him with the idea of young female secretary. He succeeds. Abhay meets Vanshika at the office. He is disgusted. She is flustered, but hopelessly in love. The rest of the film is a roller-coaster ride - a clash of the value system of the idealistic Vanshika and the non-existent morals of the wayward Abhay. But there are some unexpected twists, strange encounters (with Jabbar Khashogi-Danny Denzongpa) and unusual events courtesy (Jhonny Lever} on this exciting ride. Will Vanshika win Abhay over Yet again, will love triumph against all odds. Plain, myopic, Vanishka Mathur has a college-day crush on handsome Abhay Sinha, and as luck would have it, she is hired by his dad, Satyaprakash Sinha to be his Personal Secretary. But Abhay does not like her, he is busy painting the town red with his maternal uncle, Rakesh Nath, and a young lady by the name of Simran Garewal. Satyaprakash entrusts Vanishka that she is to remain with Abhay at all time, and Abhay retaliates by blind-folding her, and blocking her eardrums, as well as stranding her without any transportation. Things come a head when she saves Satyaprakash's life, and must accompany Abhay on a trip overseas, little knowing that Abhay is not going alone with her, he has someone else accompany him; And the events abroad will change their lives forever.

