Sister Act

 Sister Act is about a Reno lounge singer named Deloris Van Carter who witnesses her mobster boyfriend killing an employer. She is then hidden in a convent under a witness protection program. She soon makes friends with the nuns especially Sister Mary Robert, Sister Mary Lazuras and Sister Mary Patrick. After the Mother Superior catches Deloris going out to a bar in the night time followed by Mary Robert and Mary Patrick she orders her to join the church choir. Only to find her coaching the choir and turning them into swingin' singin' sisters. The choir proves to be a big success with the surrounding neighborhood, but will Deloris' boyfriend track her down... Delores Van Cartier is a singer who wants to make it big. She is having a romance with a guy called Vince but when he won't leave his wife she breaks up with him.After wards, she witnesses a murder which was ordered by Vince. Delores runs to the police who say she must stay in hiding for a while. However this hiding place isn't an old run down house, or a caravan no, it's a convent! Delores' new identity is Sister Mary Clarence. However Delores, doesn't just sit around all day in the lifeless, boring convent, no she goes clubbing and makes friends with the nuns. She also turns the dull, lifeless choir into a hip one which makes the church more popular with young people. However how long will it be before knowledge of this choir and Delores reaches Vince? A Vegas singer witnesses a mob murder and the cops stash her in a nunnery to protect her from the hitmen. The mother superior does not trust her, and takes steps to limit her influence on the other nuns. Eventually the singer rescues the failing choir and begins helping with community projects, which gets her an interview on TV. This alerts the mob to her whereabouts, and the chase is back on. Delores is having an affair with her Mafia boss, Vince. Her career as a singer in Las Vegas is going nowhere and Vince won't divorce his wife and she goes to him to break it off, witnessing a murder Vince just ordered. Running from the club, she seeks police protection. They agree to hide her in the one place Vince would never look for her. She finds, to her chagrin, that it is a convent, where she must impersonate a nun. After several false starts, she is assigned to the convent's dismal choir. She challenges and reorganizes them to become a modern singing group. In this she is successful, and as the choir gets better, success brings it's own problems.

