Sixty Days

 Sixty Days is a story about the interconnected lives of four city dwellers the wealthy James, the schizophrenic Michelle, a nameless troubled retail clerk and Corrine, a jaded but beautiful street prostitute living under a cloud of drugs and abuse. Alienated from the world and strangely connected through random social gatherings, the four misfits disregard both each other and themselves as they struggle to find meaning without getting swallowed by the impartial city. "Sixty Days" is a story about the interconnected lives of four city dwellers schizophrenic office worker; "the Junglist," a retail clerk, and the prostitute the Junglist falls for, Corrine. Before he leaves the city, James throws himself four send-off parties. These parties serve as the event that bring the four main characters in "Sixty Days" together. After each party we follow a different character, seeing the most intimate details of their private lives. "Sixty Days" begins with the story of Michelle, a young alcoholic-schizophrenic who is obsessed with James. At one of James' parties, Michelle meets the Junglist, a scruffy and down-on-his-luck retail clerk. Michelle and the Junglist have a brief romance before Michelle rejects him because of her unrequited love for James. At another of James' parties, the Junglist meets Corrine, a prostitute who was brought along as a going away "gift" for James. Corrine and the Junglist quickly fall in love and develop a relationship that leaves the Junglist struggling to deal with Corrine's way of life. Meanwhile, Corrine descends further into a world of drugs, poverty and abuse at the hands of her ruthless drug dealer Pino. In the end the Junglist and a battered Corrine resolve to make their lives better - together. "Sixty Days" shows us the way people in a city can be at once interconnected and alienated. The film gives us an insight into the way different social classes - the rich and the poor - interact in an urban metropolis. "Sixty Days" is a low-budget, Canadian independent film produced by Sixteen Films Ltd. Shot on location in Toronto, Canada, "Sixty Days" is a dynamic ensemble piece that follows the interconnected lives of four young adults as they navigate relationships, careers and the dark streets of the big city. Sixty Days is a story about the interconnected lives of four city dwellers the wealthy James, the schizophrenic Michelle, a nameless troubled retail clerk and Corrine, a jaded but beautiful street prostitute living under a cloud of drugs and abuse. Alienated from the world and strangely connected through random social gatherings, the four misfits disregard both each other and themselves as they struggle to find meaning without getting swallowed by the impartial city. Before he leaves the city, James throws himself four send-off parties. These parties serve as the event that bring the four main characters in "Sixty Days" together. After each party we follow a different character, seeing the most intimate details of their private lives.

