Snatcher CD-ROMantic

 June 6, 1996, A mysterious explosion destroys the Chernolton research facility near Moscow. Lucifer Alpha, a powerful biological weapon under secret development there is released into the atmosphere, creating a deadly biohazard. Carried by the trade winds, Lucifer Alpha spreads through out Eastern Europe and Eurasia, destroying 80% of the populace. Half of the world's people die. The greatest biohazard in history later simply becomes known as "The Catastrophe". But at this time who could have possibly imagined that the ultimate biohazard wouldn't occur for another half century. 50 years later mankind faces its greatest crisis, the appearance of a mysterious android life form. It's purpose and origin are unknown. Is it a new kind of weapon? Or perhaps an invasion from some other world. They appear during winter killing humans, and infiltrating society by taking the place of their victims. Employing an artificial skin, they can sweat and even bleed. Part organic, part machine, they're almost impossible to distinguish from those they kill. As they steal their victims' bodies in order to take their place, these mysterious invaders become known as "Snatchers." A new police force specifically trained to fight the Snatchers has been formed, they are named Junkers. You play the role of Gillian Seed, A rookie Junker with a lost memory and a past that is shrouded in mystery. Armed with a Blaster (the official gun of a Junker) and a robot navigator named Metal Gear, you are assigned to investigate the disappearances of Neo-Kobe citizens and put a stop to the Snatcher menace before it's to late... OPENING PROLOGUE Chernoton research facility near Moscow. Lucifer Alpha, a powerful biological weapon under secret development there, is released into the atmosphere, creating a deadly biohazard. Carried by the trade winds, Lucifer Alpha spreads throughout Eastern Europe and Eurasia, destroying eighty per cent of the populous. Half of the world's people die. The greatest biohazard in history later becomes known simply as "the catastrophe". But at this time, who could have possibly imagined that the ultimate biohazard wouldn't occur for another half century? Fifty years later, mankind faces its greatest crisis android life form. Its purpose and origin are unknown. Is it a new form of weapon? Or perhaps, an invasion from some other world... They appear during winter, killing humans and infiltrating society by taking the place of their victims. Employing an artificial skin, they can sweat and even bleed. Part organic, part machine - they're almost impossible to distinguish from those they kill. As they steal their victims' bodies in order to take their place, these mysterious invaders become known as "snatchers".

