Snowman

 The fictional town of 'Westgate', a dank urban sprawl, is on the rise as the most violent city in Britain. Superintendent George Davis is under pressure to cut crime in the region, something an urban vigilante is currently doing a lot better. 'Snowman', an albino pursuing his own personal vendetta. Inadvertently becoming a hero in the City. However when 'Snowman' saves a girl from an attack on a bus he is lured into a trap which will find him finally come face to face with Superintendent Davis and an armed response unit in a showdown at an airport on the outskirts of the City. SNOWMAN is an explosive action drama, shot single handed on no budget by filmmaker Stephen Reynolds. Based on his feature script of the same name. The fictional town of 'Westgate', a dank urban sprawl, is on the rise as the most violent city in Britain. Superintendent George Davis is under pressure to cut crime in the region, something an urban vigilante is currently doing a lot better. 'Snowman', an albino pursuing his own personal vendetta. Inadvertently becoming a hero in the City. However when 'Snowman' saves a girl from an attack on a bus he is lured into a trap which will find him finally come face to face with Superintendent Davis and an armed response unit in a showdown at an airport on the outskirts of the City. SNOWMAN is an explosive action drama, shot single handed on no budget by filmmaker Stephen Reynolds. Based on his feature script of the same name. The fictional town of 'Westgate', a dank urban sprawl, is on the rise as the most violent city in Britain. Superintendent George Davis is under pressure to cut crime in the region, something an urban vigilante is currently doing a lot better. 'Snowman', an albino pursuing his own personal vendetta. Inadvertently becoming a hero in the City. However when 'Snowman' saves a girl from an attack on a bus he is lured into a trap which will find him finally come face to face with Superintendent Davis and an armed response unit in a showdown at an airport on the outskirts of the City. SNOWMAN is an explosive action drama, shot single handed on no budget by filmmaker Stephen Reynolds. Based on his feature script of the same name. The fictional town of West-gate, a dank urban sprawl, is on the rise as the most violent city in Britain. Superintendent George Davis is under pressure to cut crime in the region, something an urban vigilante is currently doing a lot better. Snowman, an albino pursuing his own personal vendetta, inadvertently becoming a hero. Reducing the crime rate single handed as he tries to seek out the gang of hoodys that attacked him and killed his friend. However when Snowman saves a girl from an attack on a bus he is lured into a trap which will find him finally come face to face with Davis and an armed response unit in a showdown at an airport on the outskirts of the City.

