Solartaxi

 What began as a childhood dream is now an epic 18-month adventure that spans the globe. More than a few have embarked on an 'around the world' adventure; some have even completed it, but no one has ever done so powered exclusively by the sun. Meet Louis Palmer and his home-made "Solartaxi". Full of surprises and apparently insurmountable obstacles, his journey begins in the summer of 2007. Solar energy is functional, efficient, and most importantly, reliable. A car with zero emission is not a dream. This film is proof. Along the way, Louis and his Solartaxi meet princes, movie stars, politicians and scientists, but most importantly, encounter ordinary people, showing them, mobility with the mere power of the sun is possible. More than a few have embarked on the 'around the world' adventure, some have even completed it, though no one has ever done so powered exclusively by the sun. Enter Louis Palmer and his home-made 'Solartaxi'. Full of surprises and apparently insurmountable obstacles, his adventure began in the summer of 2007 and spans 18 months. He knew that he could not change the world on his own - but he could show what's possible, and he has. Solar energy is functional, efficient and most notably reliable; a car with zero emission is not a dream. And this film is proof. Along the way, the Solartaxi meets princes, movie stars, politicians and scientists, encounters ordinary people and shows them, that it is possible with the mere power of the sun. More than a few have embarked on the 'around the world' adventure, some have even completed it, though no one has ever done so powered exclusively by the sun. Enter Louis Palmer and his home-made 'Solartaxi'. Full of surprises and apparently insurmountable obstacles, his adventure began in the summer of 2007 and spans 18 months. He knew that he could not change the world on his own - but he could show what's possible, and he has. Solar energy is functional, efficient and most notably reliable; a car with zero emission is not a dream. And this film is proof. Along the way, the Solartaxi meets princes, movie stars, politicians and scientists, encounters ordinary people and shows them, that it is possible with the mere power of the sun.

