Somewhere Only We Know

 Somewhere Only We Know is a silent film that tells the story of indomitable love and how it redefines the spirit of the human being. The story begins in a nursing home. June is eighty-three, with advancing Alzheimer's. She sits in her chair by a window overlooking a garden. This is her world, a place where the remainder of her life passes slowly. Her husband, Doug, rides the bus everyday to visit her with flowers, to feed her, comb her hair and whisper sweet nothings that mean everything. But beneath his eyes is something lost, wounded and unforgotten. In a collage of images showing June and Doug's life together, we discover a secret. This is when we meet old Edna, clutching a photo of her and June, taken years earlier, grinning full of life. The photo plunges us back into wartime New Zealand, when June and Edna are young and radiant best friends. We watch them in a series of hi-fi moments together - 1940's gorgeous, fearless, inseparable. In love. That is until June's encounter with a young stranger, Doug. Secretly consumed with heartbreak and jealousy at the wedding of June and Doug, Edna passionately kisses June. Unsure how to respond, June ignores any hidden meaning it may have had. In hopes of forgetting the past, June tries to set Edna up with a handsome man over dinner. But surprisingly, the women find themselves locked in each other's arms instead. Their love affair ensues, until Doug finds out and confronts the women in a fit of rage. June abandons Edna to follow her husband and lead a "normal" life. But it becomes impossible as Edna writes to her in secrecy. The story returns to June as an old woman in the nursing home. Doug is confronted by the past when he discovers a hidden photo sent to June from Edna. Finally, in a true expression of love, Doug invites Edna to see June in an effort to reconcile. It is here that Doug and Edna share a long gaze, an understanding of what it truly is to be in love with the same woman, from its first delicate moments to its last.

