Sonic Adventure 2

 The most popular video-game character is back in the sequel to the 2 million selling original for the Sega Dreamcast. In his second outing, Sonic is haunted by Shadow the Hedgehog a creation of the evil Dr. Eggman... Returning from the original Sonic Adventure, Sonic has returned to put a stop to Dr. Eggman's plans once again. After Sonic had destroyed Dr. Eggman's monster, Chaos, in the first game, Eggman is in need of the Chaos Emeralds once again. He discovers a weapon in a military base hedgehog that is immortal and ageless. Shadow says that he will grant Eggman a wish. Eggman wants to conquer the world, of course! Eggman goes out in search of the Chaos Emeralds. He meets a bat named Rouge. Eggman, Shadow, and Rouge are in search of the Chaos Emeralds. It's Sonic's job to save the world, or else Good of Dark side to conquer or save the world! Sonic was trying to relax after he fought Chaos in Sonic Adventure 2, however he got captured by the military being accused of his "crimes. " It turned out that a look-alike, Shadow the Hedgehog, was behind the whole mess. As Robotnik is still concocting a plan to conquer Earth (again!), Shadow is more than willing to help him. Meanwhile, Tails, and Amy try to find out why Sonic is framed. Knuckles, on the other hand, has to recover shards of the Master Emerald since he and his rival, Rouge the Bat, accidentally broke it into pieces. Rouge the Bat, is also going undercover to find out Robotnik's plans while pretending to side with Robotnik. Shadow partially reveals secrets about a weapon on a space colony, ARK. Shadow was created by Robotnik's great-grandfather, Dr. Gerard Robotnik. He is ageless and immortal. 50 years ago in Shadow's time, the military shot Gerard's granddaughter, Maria, while trying to escape. Since Shadow swore to take revenge on all of the people living on Earth, he assists Robotnik's plans in getting 7 Chaos Emeralds. They are required to power up the "secret weapon. " Now it is up to Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles to stop Robotnik's plans. Save the world as the Good Guys, or rule the world as the bad guys! When Dr. Eggman breaks into the core of a military base in order to find a top secret weapon, he is surprised to find out that the weapon, Shadow, is a hedgehog nearly identical to Sonic. However, his intentions for the Earth are nowhere near what Sonic would have in mind. Shadow starts causing havoc in the city by stealing a chaos emerald, and Sonic ends up being framed by the military for his actions. Now it's up to Sonic and his friends, the mechanical wizard, Tails, and the guardian of the master emerald, Knuckles, to stop Shadow, Dr. Eggman, and the mysterious treasure hunter Rouge the bat from taking over the world. It is up to you to save the world... or destroy it...

