Sonikku hiirôzu

 This new high-speed adventure's plot depends on which team you choose. Team Sonic (Sonic, Tails and Knuckles) get a letter from Eggman saying that they only have 72 hours until Eggman unleashes his new and improved Metal Sonic doomsday device on they world. Meanwhile, Rouge is flying around and finds Shadow (yes, he's back!) and E-123 Omega capsulized. Omega is furious that Eggman disposed of him, and Shadow is rendered of all memory, and he wants after Eggman to find out what really happened to himself. Thus, Team Dark is made. Amy reads about Sonic going after Eggman in the newspaper. Amy is mad at Sonic because she wasn't brought along. Big The Cat is once again on the lookout for his frog Froggy, and Cream The Rabbit is looking for Chocolate, Cream's Chao's twin. Here comes Team Rose! Team Chaotix (Vector, Espio, and Charmy) has formed a detective agency and has been offered a huge pay if they investigate a mysterious case. Vector sees this as an opportunity to outsmart Eggman and get revenge on him after they all got captured in "Knuckles Chaotix". Sonic and his pals are back, and this time, they bring a whole new definition to the meaning of teamwork. Tails and Knuckles finally catch up with Sonic when they find him touring the globe as usual, and they pass him a letter from his Arch-enemy, Doctor Eggman. It appears that the Doc has planned another one of his outrageous schemes, and threatens to use his new weapon in three days to conquer the world. Though Tails seems a bit worried about all this, whereas Knuckles doesn't seem to be worried at all, Sonic plainly shows a brief flicker of a smile and then zooms off into the distance, saying that this is one party that he won't wanna miss! Meanwhile, government spy, Rouge the Bat, breaks into Eggman's base, intent on finding this secret treasure she's been hearing about. The only treasure she found was a capsule housing the figure of Shadow, who was not exactly dead as we all thought. In order to release Shadow, Rouge accidently activated the last of the E-Series robots, E-123 Omega. Omega and Shadow began to fight, but the battle was soon halted by Rouge. She then figured out that Omega was angry at Eggman for sealing him in the room, and Shadow was suffering from a severe case of amnesia. Therefore, Rouge proposed that they all look for Eggman together, and get their vengeance. In another part of the globe, Amy Rose was feeling upset, for she hadn't seen her hero Sonic for what seemed like forever. However, when she saw his picture in a newspaper article, she headed straight for the printers to find out where it was taken. When she arrived, she encountered Big the Cat and Cream the Rabbit. Big was looking for Froggy, and Cream was looking for her Chao's twin, Chocola, both of whom were in the picture with Sonic. Since their goals were clearly the same, Amy convinced the two that they continue their search together. It was around this time when the Chaotix Detective Agency was finally given more work that they could get started on. Charmy Bee had excitedly brought in a package, containing a tansmitting device which promised them a hefty sum of money if they were willing to take on a case. Espio the Chameleon felt a bit uneasy about this, due to the strange method of communication, so it's up to their boss, Vector the Alligator, to make the decision. With dollar signs in his eyes, Vector didn't think twice about taking on this job, especially if there was money involved. So the three were off to solve the case. Now that you've heard all the stories, which team will you choose? Will you find Froggy, Chocola and Sonic with Team Rose? Will you solve the case and get your money with Team Chaotix? Will you destroy Eggman's weapon and save the world with Team Sonic? Or will you destroy Eggman himself with Team Dark? The choice is yours, but remember, it's all about Teamwork.

