Sons of Lemuria

 Lemuria was a beautiful, peaceful, and well renowned land of long ago. Order and serenity were kept by a governing body of Warlocks. However, the power to create and destroy eventually lead the Warlocks down the road of greed and lust for power, and for the humans to fall under their feet. The Age of Purity had come to an end and the Land suffered greatly. The Warlocks went unchallenged for hundred of years, enslaving human kind and laying waste to anything they saw as a threat. Even with all their power, they could not prevent the Land itself from retaliating against the unrest. Three Assassins walked from the deepest forest of Lemuria and began to slaughter the Warlocks one at a time. Villagers say these Assassins seemed inhuman and immune to the Power of the Warlocks, and feared they would be the next wave of tyrants. However, once the Warlocks were all slain the Assassins disappeared into the very forest from where they emerged, leaving men to rule over men, and to heal the land from all the scars left in the Age of Chaos. Despite what many thought, the Warlocks were not completely wiped from the Lands. Before the last Warlock was slain he had raped a villager in the small town of Isis during a raid, and she carried his twin sons. She was an Apothecary in the town, so the surviving villagers of the raid took extra care for her with her guidance. She had saved many of their lives in the past so it was only natural for them to repay her and keep her secret. As hard as they tried, followers of the Warlocks knew she was carrying half breed children, and they planned to bring back the Age of Warlocks with them. The birth was a difficult one and despite all the villagers efforts, the Apothecary died before both babies were fully born. After the birth, the darkness crept in and kidnapped one of the infants. Decius would be raised by the dark forces of the land to be the new name Lemuria feared. He would do what ever he could in his power to make himself the absolute ruler of Lemuria. He was following in his Father's footsteps, and would stop at nothing to secure his position of power. Again the land was falling into an age of suffering and fear. His brother Zarrius was left behind and the villagers did their best to raise him in his mother's image. They wanted him to do as much good for human kind as his mother had, and he would. As he grew he used his powers only for helping villagers in his traveling area live better lives. He helped to rid the area of thieves, and upheld a code of honor, and eventually it would lead him to cross paths with his brother for the first time in many years. With Decius being half warlock, human armies still were no match for him. Zarrius would take it on as his responsibility to rid Lemuria of his brother, and return the land to its peaceful state.

