Sooryavansham

 A zamindar and his family called "The Sooryavansh family" of Bharathpur village has a God like image among the villagers. This generation is headed by Thakur Bhanupratap Singh. He has 3 sons, the youngest, Heera he considers to be the black sheep, and most illiterate of the family, and he will not have anything to do with him. Deshraj Thakur, a village badman goes to jail as a result of the judgement given by the Panchayat headed by Bhanu Pratap and ignoring his own misdeeds develops vengeance against Bhanu Pratap. Bhanupratap is enraged when Heera proposes to marry his ward, Gauri; and even more angered when Heera flip-flops, albeit at the request of Gauri, and refuses to marry her. Heera is shunned by one and all in the family, including Gauri. And then Radha enters his life; she marries him; encourages him to live independently; and helps his business flourish. Soon they are blessed with birth of a son. In a strange situation Bhanu Pratap meets his grandson and friendship blossoms then. Heera fulfills his father's dream of a charitable hospital for the poor and named it after his father. This makes Bhanu Pratap feel proud of his son. Gradually, love takes place in the mind of Bhanu Pratap substituting hatred for Heera and his family. Deshraj plans to kill Bhanu Pratap through his innocent grandson by mixing poison in the 'kheer' the boy is carrying for his grandfather, and wants to put the blame on Heera. The poisoned Bhanu Pratap is hospitalized. Cunning Deshraj succeeds in convincing the people that Heera has planned to kill his father and thereby wants to eliminate Bhanu Pratap and provokes people against Heera. Suddenly Bhanu Pratap enters the scene and unfolds the evil designs of Deshraj Thakur to the villagers. Both the father and son are united once again. For generations the Sooryavansh family has ruled the communities and it's people justly and fairly. This generation is headed by Thakur Bhanupratap Singh (Amitabh Bachchan). He has 3 sons, the youngest, Heera (also Amitabh) he considers to be the black sheep, and most illiterate of the family, and he will not have anything to do with him. He is enraged when Heera proposes to marry his ward, Gauri (Rachana Bannerjee); and even more angered when Heera flip-flops, albeit at the request of Gauri, and refuses to marry her. Heera is shunned by one and all in the family, including Gauri. And then Radha (Soundarya) enters his life; she marries him; encourages him to live independently; and helps his business flourish. Soon they are blessed with birth of a son. Heera fulfills his father's dream of a charitable hospital for the poor. Bhanupratap comes to know of his grandchild, and meets him secretly. Then one day Bhanupratap is rushed to hospital, apparently poisoned by drinking kheer prepared by Heera, and Heera becomes the prime suspect of what may well become the death of his father.

