Sophomore

 The great Miss Helen Keller once said, "Life is either a daring adventure, or nothing." The sophomores live by these words. It's time to make a little history of their own. Sophomore year is here. Whether they're being caught with their pants down, or shirt off, being dragged across an intersection, or leaping out of windows, they're out to make the most of life. Whether sophomore, "Strummer," teacher, or parent, one thing's for sure, they're not freshmen anymore. A group of high school sophomores enjoy many adventures throughout tenth grade. Stuck between "kid-hood" and adulthood, the close-knit group crashes head first into their most formative year of high school. They're joined by Mr. McKee, the newly hired janitor of the school, as he weaves his way through the hallways, mop in hand, observing the exploits of his sophomore son Jeremy and his lively gang of friends. Inside the classroom, their beloved American history teacher, Cap, wants life to be just as much fun as it is outside the school walls, while Miss Hutz, their feared math teacher, would rather everyone shut up and sit still. While Jeremy and Lucille get inspired by Cap, their buddy Lionel plots revenge on Miss Hutz, only to find himself locked in her bathroom with his pants down. Meanwhile, Pam, takes her buddy Eddie on a beer run in the dead of winter. All's good, except for her mischievous little dog, Puffy, and Pam's minor inconvenience of not having a driver's license. In the center of it all is Sam, who's waited fifteen long years to get his chance to ambush the freshmen on "Freshman Friday." His older brother, "Blank," may act as a pseudo mentor to the sophomores, but his main purpose for senior year is to date every Asian girl in tenth grade. Along the way, a group of seventh graders, known as "The Strummers", led by the little "Casanova" Bob, plot an "end of the year" sleepover at their buddy Lenny's house. They like Lenny, but it doesn't hurt that his gorgeous older sister, Honey, sometimes sleepwalks with her shirt off. They learn their lessons, make new loves, and discover new things, and by the end of the year, whether they're a sophomore, Strummer, teacher, or parent, one thing's for sure, they're not freshmen anymore.

