Southern Justice

 In the sweltering heat of the deep south, Slim Manning, a topless club owner, wants a better life for his teenage daughter, Tracy. There's only one problem. She wants to follow in the footsteps of her mother, Audrey, a topless dancer at Slim's club. Slim (now estranged from Audrey)will not stand for it, until Tracy, now eighteen, threatens to go to a tougher, more exotic club down the street. But Slim has a terrifying secret that Audrey and Tracy don't know. Two dancers from his club have been found brutally murdered. The local Sheriff has warned Slim that the towns topless clubs are the stalking grounds for this new savage killer. Slim suddenly must open the closet to his past, dusting off his military sniper rifle to face not only a shadowy murderer, but the fundamentalist religious forces and underworld thugs of a small southern town threatening to rip his world apart. M.D. Selig's feature thriller, SOUTHERN JUSTICE throws ex-military sniper Slim Manning into the gritty underworld of a small southern town where fundamentalist religion moves into the occult. A murdered dancer at Slim's club is the catalyst for this hunt of psychotic killers who prey on young girls. Lensed on Super 16mm, the story weaves the sweltering heat of the deep south through exotic dance clubs, faith healing revivals, ritualistic torture and exorcism. With his teenage daughters life on the line, Slim must revive more than just sniper skills to keep his world intact. M.D. Selig's feature thriller, HEAVY SOUTHERN NIGHTS throws ex-military sniper Slim Manning into the gritty underworld of a small southern town where fundamentalist religion moves into the occult. A murdered dancer at Slim's club is the catalyst for this hunt of psychotic killers who prey on young girls. Lensed on Super 16mm, the story weaves the sweltering heat of the deep south through exotic dance clubs, faith healing revivals, ritualistic torture and exorcism. With his teenage daughters life on the line, Slim must revive more than just sniper skills to keep his world intact.

