Souten Ki Beti

 Heart Specialist Dr. Shyam Verma is the only child of his widowed father, Shankar. Shyam runs into beautiful Indian Airlines' Air-Hostess, Radha, and falls in love with her, woos her for 12 months (Barah Mahine Line Marhi...), she also falls in love with him, under the inducement of alcohol (Yeh Jo Halka Halka Suroor Hai...) both get intimate, and Radha gets pregnant. Shankar passes away, but before doing so, weds Shyam to his late friend, Jagannath's daughter, Rukmini. A heart-broken Radha quits her job, re-locates to Kashmir where she gives birth to Dipinti. Shyam and Radha meets again several years later, Rukmani finds out, gets them to reconcile and marry, and return to their home-town of Chandigarh. Years later Dipinti is 16 years old, and is in love with Amit Mehra. Amit is introduced to the Vermas and all approve of him. Their idyllic and harmonious existence is shattered when they run into strong opposition from Amit's dad, Advocate Mehra, who refuses to permit his 20 year old son to marry the daughter of a mistress, and a woman born out of wedlock. Nevertheless, Amit does get married to Dipinti, and shortly after the marriage Shyam, Rukmani, Radha, Amit and Dipinti are arrested by the Police and charged under Section 496 of the Indian Penal Code. Watch what happens when the Vermas find out that their case is weak and all of them may face imprisonment for bigamy, and arranging the marriage of minors. Despite being in love with Radha, Shyam fulfils his father's dying wish and marries Rukmini and they manage to find a good balance as husband and wife. Whilst on a trip to a hill station, they meet a 5 year old girl who takes them to her home and exposes an unknown truth - the little girl Dolly is Shyam's own daughter by Radha. Rukmini rises to the occasion as a great woman and accepts and adopts Radha as a second wife of Shyam and Dolly as their daughter, without caring for society and the law. They live happily under one roof until Dolly falls in love with a high society advocate's son Amit. But society doesn't accept Dolly and charges her of being a illegal child and they must face both social and legal barriers as well as family turmoil in a fight to be together.

