Spawn

 An assassin named Al Simmons is double-crossed and murdered by his evil boss Jason Wynn. Al makes a deal with the devil and returns to earth as Spawn to see his wife. He is ordered by the devil's minion, The Clown, to kill Wynn. Wynn has made a deal with the clown too and is suppose to destroy the world with a deadly virus that will help start Armageddon and allow Hell to attack Heaven. Spawn must choose between Good & Evil. The movie adaptation of Todd McFarlane's mega-cult comic! Al Simmons is a hitman who works for the government. One day, someone sets him up and he gets killed. Of course, he goes to Hell, where Malebolgia - the Devil himself - offers him a deal. Al will come back to life with a certain amount of "energy", but when it runs out, he will return to Hell as a Hellspawn, and help in the war against Heaven. Al accepts the offer, because of the love for his wife Wanda, but when he arrives to Earth he sees that the Devil has cheated him... His face is horribly distorted, his body covered with a living suit, and the worst of all; he finds Wanda married with his best friend. Shattered, the Spawn starts wandering in New York's alleys... Based off of Todd McFarlane's Comic Book, Lieutenant Colonel Al Simmons who is a secret agent of an organization called A-6, run by Jason Wynn. However, during an operation, Simmons was Double-Crossed by Wynn himself and was killed and sent to the devil's world. The Devil kept Simmons secluded for 5 years, then Simmons came back as "Spawn", having very little memory, only remembering his wife, Wanda and Wynn. He is sent to kill Wynn. Meanwhile, Wynn is secretly planning for world domination, and has ordered special doctors to implant a detonator for a deadly virus into his heart if anybody kills him. Then, Spawn finds out that it is a plan by the devil to kill everybody in the world. So that the devil's army is purified and they can destroy heaven. Spawn must stop Wynn and Clown (the devil's assistant) from destroying the world. Al Simmons, is a military soldier/assassin, who has been betrayed by a covert government agency head named Jason Wynn. Wynn orders his top assassin, Jessica Priest, to assassinate him. After Simmons dies, he is immediately transported to Hell, where Malebolgia, a demonic ruler of the various realms, offers him a Faustian deal. If Simmons becomes his eternal servant and leader of Hell's army in Armageddon, he will be able to return to Earth to see his beloved fiancee, Wanda Blake. And Simmons accepts the offer and is transformed into a Hellspawn, which is a servant of Malebolgia in a necroplasm suit that is not only a living, breathing creature, but is also his only protection in the world. Simmons (soon to be dubbed "Spawn" by Malebolgia's crony, The Violator) returns to Earth and attempts to reunite with Wanda, not knowing that five years have passed. He also seeks revenge on his former boss and killer, Jason Wynn, who has made a deal with The Violator to develop a lethal virus to take over the world, where Wynn is promised to be king.

