Speed

 Zayed comes to London to convince his girlfriend Minisha to give him another chance to prove his love for her. Meanwhile, Sanjay, an undercover MI5 agent, receives a CD from Sohail Khan and his lady, Tanushree, which contains the recording of his kidnapped wife, Urmila, and is asked to follow the instructions. He asks his colleague Amrita to crack the code and moves off. He's completely confused about what's happening. Soon he realizes that he is being used as a weapon to assassinate the PM of India on his London tour. As he is still not agreeing to plans, Sohail finally decides to kidnap his kid. Sanjay's kidnapped wife, Urmila, starts trying to escape. Her only ray of hope is the telephone call she's accidentally made to Zayed Khan. He's in touch with her throughout the movie on his cell phone. Continuously talking with her and giving her moral support. As Zayed decides to help Urmila, his love of life,Minisha gets pissed off and threatens to break up again. A happy-go-lucky brat Zayed, who never takes anything seriously, risks his own life to save an unknown family just because of a call. Aashish Chaudhary - the super-cop of London is in charge of security of the visiting Prime Minister. But as his girlfriend has her birthday the very same day, Ashish is caught between his personal life and duty. He obviously chooses the later. Will Sohail and tanushree succeed in their sinister plans? And will Zayed be able to save his love life with Minisha?, Will Urmila and her kid live another day just with the help of Zayed's phone? Will Ashish be able to protect the life of the Prime Minister? Of-Indian origin, Siddnath Verma, his wife Rikshay and school-going son, Bobby takes up resident in London, U.K. Siddnath works in a restaurant as a chef, but unknown to anyone he is an undercover MI-5 agent and Rikshay is employed as a teacher at St. Josephs school, the future looks bright for the family. But a notorious criminal gang leading with Somil Khan, an ex-Indian Intelligence and his lady-love, Monika has been aware of Siddnath's secret, kidnaps his wife, Rikshay, holds her hostage in an old stable and demands a ransom of 1.5 million dollars, of which Siddnath must deliver to them and he dears not act smart as video-camera is set in the entire city for them to spy on him. Rikshay also trys to contact the police but her phone gets cross-connection with Sandy, who has come to London to convince his girlfriend, Sanjana to marry him. Rikshay begs him to help her, at first he refuses but finally agrees to help her. He attempts to report this matter to the police but is misunderstood and is thrown out of the police station. After some confusions Siddnath finally delivers the money to the gang but they refuses to release his wife and has now abducted his son, Bobby. To make matters worse they wanted to kill the Indian Prime Minister, Gatryi Devi, through Rohan, one of there men impersonating Gatryi Devi's body guard and to involve Siddnath in this assassination as well as put an end to all loved one in his life. Siddharth Verma lives a wealthy lifestyle in London, England, along with his wife, Richa, and son, Bobby. He works as Chef in a restaurant, but is actually an undercover agent for M15. The entire Verma family's lives will be turned upside down after Richa gets abducted, and it will be up to Siddharth to try and secure her release. When contacted, Siddharth agrees to pay the ransom amount, and arranges to deliver it - not realizing that more surprises and shocks are in store for him and his family.

