Squadron of Honor

 On the eve of an American Legion convention, National Commander Metcalf and District Attorney Dan Blaine, also a Legionaire, go to Lou Tanner, local race-track manager, and ask him to close the track before the delegates arrive. Tanner refuses, in the presence of Kimball, a wealthy stable-owner and arms manufacturer. The latter invites Dan and Metcalf to dinner. While Dan dances with Mimball's pretty secretary, Eve Rogers, Kimball tells Metcalf he will see to it that the track closes if the Commander will use his influence to have the Legion defeat a certain bill pending before Congress---an arms-control act that would limit the sale of guns to private citizens. Metcalf declines, for Legion sentiment is strongly in favor of the bill(this is a fictional movie.) Craig, an aide to Kimball, tears a page from the classified directory and circles a costumer who can provide him with a Legion uniform, rents the uniform under an assumed name, and as soon as he leaves, signals to Lawlor, a henchman, who enters the store and kills the owner. THe morning of the big parade, Metcalf is expected at his office at 9 to call at the Legion headquarters at 9 Legionaire, waits for tanner and kills him with a gun fitted with a silencer. He then waits for Metcalf in the outer office and pretending to make a contribution to the Commander's collection of firearms, presents him with the gun he used to murder Tanner. Metcalf is charged with murder. Kimball summons Dan, saying he can clear Metcalf by producing the man who gave Metcalf the gun. His intention is to dress the murdered costumer in Craig's rented-uniform. In turn, Kimball demands support for killing the pending arms bill. Dan refuses. Now, as the convention is about to begin, its Commander is in jail charged with murder and this is not good publicity. But, possibly, if Eve discovers the torn directory page, it may give Dan a clue to who the killer is. Especially if the 13th-billed Jimmy Hollywood (as Sid Hinkle) can mimic Kimball's voice.

