Starting from Scratch

 Three lifestyles, one friendship... Synopsis Hollywood cafE, Dylan, a screenwriter, becomes friends with two very different guys, Mitch and Brandon, who in turn become his customers. Mitch spends time with Dylan shooting pool and chasing girls on their motorcycles, while Brandon entertains Dylan with high nights on X in the company of his Hollywood power circle as they play and dance late into the evenings. In his attempt to be friends with both, he allows each of them to bring out different sides of himself, until his two new friends become toxic in their own unique ways. Dylan struggles with his writing career along the way and in the end throws it all away as he starts from scratch with Julie, his friend throughout. Set in popular local Hollywood hot spots on Vine St. like "The Three of Clubs," "M Bar," "Bliss CafE," and classic Old Hollywood locations like "Villa Elaine," (Mann Ray was a resident back in the day), STARTING FROM SCRATCH tells the heartfelt story about the struggle to find love, success and one's self in Hollywood. Starting From Scratch is the directorial dEbut for Tha Voyce. In 2003 Tha Voyce wrote the award winning indi feature FISHES. www.thavoyce.com myspace.com/tha_voyce While running a local Hollywood cafE, Dylan, a screenwriter, becomes friends with two very different guys, Mitch and Brandon, who in turn become his customers. Mitch spends time with Dylan shooting pool and chasing girls on their motorcycles, while Brandon entertains Dylan with high nights on X in the company of his Hollywood power circle as they play and dance late into the evenings. In his attempt to be friends with both, he allows each of them to bring out different sides of himself, until his two new friends become toxic in their own unique ways. Dylan struggles with his writing career along the way and in the end throws it all away as he starts from scratch with Julie, his friend throughout. Set in popular local Hollywood hot spots on Vine St. like "The Three of Clubs," "M Bar," "Bliss CafE," and classic Old Hollywood locations like "Villa Elaine," (Mann Ray was a resident back in the day), STARTING FROM SCRATCH tells the heartfelt story about the struggle to find love, success and one's self in Hollywood.

