Star Fox 64

 You take on the role of Fox McCloud, the leader of the Star Fox team. 'Star Fox' is an elite group of fighter pilots that works as mercenaries for the Cornarian Army. Corneria is the home planet of the team, and also of Dr. Andross, a mad scientist who was responsible for the death of Fox's father five years after General Pepper, the leader of Corneria, exiled him (Andross) to the planet Venom, and the Star Fox team went to investigate the strange activity from the planet. Many years later, Andross arises as the emperor of Venom and the supreme ruler of an almost unstoppable military force and declares war on the entire Lylat System, starting with Corneria. General Pepper calls the team to action. The orders key planets of the Lylat System, infiltrate Venom, and stop Dr. Andross. Star Fox is about an elite squad of star pilots fighting the evil Andross, a scientist who is invading the Lylat Star System. The team includes Fox Mcloud, Peppy Hare, Slippy Toad, and Falco Lombardi. The levels include 8 planets, 3 nebula, 2 space bases, an asteroid field, and the sun. On 13 levels you are a space ship, on 2 levels you are a tank, and on 1 you are a submarine. Depending on differences in your performance you can take different routes through the Lylat System. In this game, you play as Fox McCloud. Andross, a former sicentist of Corneria, was banished by General Peppers to the planet Venom for his dangerous experiments. There, he became emperor and built an army strong enough to help him conquer the Lylat System. When the original Star Fox team led by Fox's father James McCloud went to investigate on Planet Venom where they were attacked by Andross' army and treacherous teammate named Pigma Dengar betrayed the team. Peppy Hare was the sole survivor of that battle. Now Fox and his teammates Falco Lombardi, Peppy Hare, and Slippy Toad must help the Cornerian army defeat Andross. Not only do they have to fight Andross and his flying monkeys, they also get into dogfight with their rivals, the Star Wolf team [who was hired by Andross to destroy Star Fox]. Star Wolf's leader, Wolf O'Donnell is Fox McClouds's most persistent rival.

