Star Trek

 Admiral James T. Kirk is still in charge of a space fleet, but from behind a desk. Dr. McCoy and Mr. Spock convince him to take on a mission which sounds simple, but with the appearance of the mysterious Khan, things get a little tricky. It is the twenty-third century. Admiral James T. Kirk is feeling old; the prospect of accompanying his old ship the Enterprise--now a Starfleet Academy training ship--on a two-week cadet cruise is not making him feel any younger. But the training cruise becomes a deadly serious mission when Khan appears after years of exile--and holding the power of creation itself... In the second Star Trek movie, Admiral Kirk is now a Starfleet Academy instructor, while Captain Spock serves as a cadet training officer, while being in command of the U.S.S. Enterprise. Meanwhile, scientists aboard Space Station Regula I are conducting the Project Genesis experiment, and the U.S.S. Reliant is assigned to the Genesis project. While surveying a lifeless planet in the Ceti Alpha star system, Cmdr. Chekov and Capt. Clark Terrell beam down to the sixth planet, and find a shocking discovery, in which cargo containers are located. Unknown to the Reliant crew was that the cargo containers housed refugees from the Eugenics Wars of 1990s Earth, with Khan Noonian Singh in charge. Khan later revealed that Ceti Alpha VI exploded, and shifted the orbit of the fifth planet as a Mars-like haven. Khan manages to hijack the Reliant, and manages to steal the Genesis Device. Admiral Kirk takes the U.S.S. Enterprise on a training mission, and is involved in a surprise attack, in which Khan vows to avenge his exile. Unfortunately, Captain Spock sacrifices himself to save the Enterprise from the premeditated arming of the Genesis torpedo, and after his death, his casket (which is a converted torpedo tube) was fired from the U.S.S. Enterprise... It is the 23rd Century. The Federation Starship U.S.S. Enterprise is on routine training maneuvers, and Admiral James T. Kirk seems resigned to the fact that this may well be the last space mission of his career. But Khan is back. Aided by his exiled band of genetic supermen, Khan--brilliant renegade of 20th Century Earth--has raided Space Station Regula One, stolen a top secret device called Project Genesis, wrested control of another Federation starship, and now schemes to set a most deadly trap for his old enemy Kirk . . . with the threat of a universal Armageddon!

