Statskiy sovetnik

 Third film based on Boris Akunin's "Priklucheniya Erasta Petrovicha Fandorina" series of novels. On a train from St. Petersburg to Moscow general Khrapov was killed and no one else but Erast Petrovich is under suspicion because the killer pretended to be Fandorin. There are initials BG on the handle of the knife Khrapov was stabbed with, the initials belong to a terrorist organization which keeps both capital cities (Moscow and St. Petersburg) in fear. This time Fandorin is not the only one trying to solve the crime, general Pozharski, a famous detective takes over the investigation... The state councilor ministerial railroad car of express train by unknown ubit the former commander of the individual group of gendarmes, the Siberian governor general of snores, been sent through Moscow toward the duty station. It follows from the report of protection, that the snores it was it ubit by state councilor Erast Petrovich Fandorin, into whose of responsibility providing safety of governor general during his presence in Moscow entered. Extraordinary accident is described by eyewitnesses thus slightly stuttering himself Mr. of 35 years with the grey temples and the black moustaches entered into the railroad car during the stoppage in to wedge and seemed himself the becoming means. Since protection had with itself the detailed description of the state councilor Of fandorina, suspicions it did not arise. "state councilor" proceeded in the sleeping compartment Of khrapova. Through several minutes the General was found killed, criminal ran through the window. On the spot of crime killer left dagger with the mysterious abbreviation "BG". However, on the arrival into Moscow, tracking Khrapova is encountered with the present Fandorinym and is convinced of that, that the killer only issued himself for the state councilor. Itself Erast Petrovich approaches the immediate investigation. He knows, what indicate the letters "BG" - this is the autograph of the members of mysterious combat group. To him it is known, that only the officials of the higher level in Moscow and Petersburg could know about the mission entrusted to it to guard Khrapova. However, where do conduct the threads of this crime? Who leads mysterious "BG"? Soon to the aid To fandorinu from Petersburg arrives very vice director of the department of the police prince Pozharskiy. With its appearance the history assumes the most unexpected turning.

