Steel and Glass

 When retired Detective Frank Bradley receives a phone call at 3 in the morning from his former partner, Police Chief Thomson, he's led to believe that there has been a development in his last two cases. Having just been dumped by his 20-something year old girlfriend, wasting money on tickets to Hawaii and a wedding ring; he doesn't see how things can get any worse. After arriving at Thomson's office, he is greeted by a short round of jokes at his expense. Thomson tries to change the subject by showing Bradley a vile containing Steel and Glass. When Bradley demands to know about his last two cases, Thomson reluctantly answers "they both walked." Thomson lied about his cases to get Bradley to come back in. It was a trick. Thomson tries to play off the fact that he knows Bradley is too much of a hard ass to ever accept help. He explains he is handing him over one last case. Bradley knows something is up and finds out there is a catch. Bradley has to work with the Chief's rookie nephew. Bradley unwillingly accepts the Steel and Glass case. Forced to work with the arrogant Mark, the two take a trip down memory lane. Frank hides his current frustration by recalling his career of missed opportunities. He does his best to reach out to the misguided kid but his brash attitude gets the better of him. They fight over Mark's role model, his uncle Thomson. Frank tells a tale of how he was betrayed by Thomson and his friends into never receiving a case that led to a successful conviction, took the chief position out from under him, and finally forced him into early retirement. Mark sees a man who everyone likes and put his career first. The two clash as it all leads up to the explosive finish that sheds light onto each man's character. When curmudgeonly detective Frank Bradley -- recently retired from a checkered career -- is dumped by the woman he had hoped to make a life with, he reluctantly agrees to accommodate former partner, now Police Chief, Robert Thomson, by taking on one last case. Thomson's motive, he tells Bradley, is to have him work the case with rookie Mark Thomson, the Chief's nephew, a self-proclaimed fast-track gunslinger. The Chief wants Bradley to show Mark "the ropes" as a favor, but circumstances compel the detective to relive the shattered pieces of his legacy. A quick study, Bradley can see Mark's future shaping up as a mirror of his own past, as they take a drive down memory lane and beyond Hoboken's city limits. Mark tries to convince Bradley that his uncle is a good man who not only looks out for family and friends but also does his duty. Bradley only sees a man who once tricked him and subsequently kept him down his whole career. Seeking a lead in the case, Bradley abandons Mark and goes it alone, leading up to an explosive finish that sheds light on the character of each of the three men. "STEEL AND GLASS" examines a timeless theme boundaries between ethics and one's assigned role in society. This modernist approach to classic film noir reveals that nothing is black and white, just many shades of grey.

