Stin pagida tou sex kai tou eglimatos

 Sunrise on a deserted island in the Aegean. Joe and his gang (Mark, Gianni & Diamond) are waking up. They are diamond smugglers who were chased by the police and had sought refuge on that island. In the proxess, they were forced to sink their boat and do away with Pepe, the tough member of the gang. Their attention is drawn by the arrival of a small yacht with some girls. Perhaps they can escape from the island using that boat. The girls, Vana, Tania, Maria, Caroline and Estelle, are nudists in search of nature. As they are enjoying the blue sea, Tania risks to have an accident and is saved by Mark. This gives the gang the opportunity to meet the girls and pretend they are nature lovers too. A day of fun and frolic follows crowned by a feast by the fireside at night. Romances and and jealusies are the order of the day, since both the girls and the boys are not only attracted to one another but on occasion to members of their own group as well. The morning after the orgy, Pepe appears. He is not dead. The gang conspires how to get rid of the girls and grab their boat. In the meantime, Pepe has managed to replace the stolen diamonds with ordinary stones and and hides the real gems. Mark goes off to search for his sweetheart but finds Tania in the arms of Vana. He leaves disgusted. But Tania follows him and confesses how the trauma from her unfortunate marriage has turned her into a lesbian. They discover they are really in love with each other. Pepe tries to rape Caroline and during the struggle kills her. Vana has seen everything so he is forced to kill her as well. But Joe has heard the shooting and challenges Pepe. They fight and Joe succeeds in killing Pepe. They have to leave the island. They all board the yacht and set off. But Joe has tricked Diamond into staying behind on the island. He also throws Maria overboard. Tania and Mark are afraid of Joe and manage to escape. Joe and Estela are furious. They return to the island to search for them and the missing diamonds. But the police has spotted them. A helicopter lands and soon Joe is surrounded.

