Stolen Good

 Shot on location amid the gorgeous backdrops of New Zealand's southern Alps, the mighty Sierras of Lake Tahoe, oceanside on Cape Cod and the California coasts, Stolen Good is a spectacularly beautiful movie filled with the non-stop action of screeching stolen cars, helicopter riding at 12,000 feet and amazing stunt work of professional snowboarders performed by the lead actors themselves. The director, Russ Jaquith, has lived the snowboarder lifestyle, photographed six films around the globe and captured the authentic lives of professional snowboarders. This film shares all of it consequences. Snowboarding to the limit seems to be what three thrill seekers share, what keeps them together. But when everything and everyone gives up on them, they see that friendship is their bond. Each year longtime friends from Cape Cod, Jeff Ryker, Jake O'Connor and Sean Pierce meet in Tahoe for spring break. Sean invites his friends to live with him next season. He is taking time off from school to jumpstart his career as a pro rider. Jake and Ryker discourage him from leaving. But when he offers to make a snowboarding video of himself and Jake, and offers free living to Ryker, they're down with the plan. Jeff Ryker refuses to get a steady job. When out west, and low on cash, he steals luxury cars. He freeloads off his friends and knows how to scam almost everything for free. Despite his enormous talent at snowboarding, he quit the corporate sponsor game years ago, and now free rides. Ryker is always on a mission, an adventure own. That summer Ryker fails again to get his hometown girl in bed and again leaves for the west coast without notice. Again leaving Shawna untied and confused. For Jake O'Connor everything is perfect. He's got the glamorous career with paying sponsors, is the envy of Sean, and now has the girl. But that's about to change. In a moment, everything could be lost after Jake folds under industry pressure deep in the backcountry. Sean "the rookie" brashly moves ahead, trying to get the life that Jake has. He ignores his friends' advice to stay in school and defies his parents. He knows what he wants and is determined to get it. He puts it all on the line to make it big.

