Storee obu wain

 At the one year Anniversary Party for the wine bar 'Story of Wine', Min-sung, a former fund manager who became a sommelier because of his love for wine, made an exclusive wine list specifically paired with a unique story that represents the qualities of each wine. Which wine or story do you want to choose? Story 1. Buehler White Zinfandel - A Story of the Sweet Taste A sweet wine. Shall we enjoy it together? Every Thursday and Sunday, there is a handsome Moroccan, Alex, who visits the 'Story of wine' and buys wine from Min-sung. The only Korean word Alex knows is 'Hello.' Soon, Min-sung, all the employees and patrons of the wine bar became extremely curious about Alex. After inquiring about him, they find out that he is a professional league baseball player recruited for a Korean team. Somehow Min-sung felt something in common with Alex, even though they can't communicate much besides 'Hello.' Knowing that Alex is far from his home and probably needs a friend, Min-sung prepares the sweet white wine and waits for him. Story 2. Joseph Phelps Insignia Normally associated with 'Expensive' taste . What is expensive taste? When Min-sung decided to open the wine bar instead of continuing his career as a successful fund manager, his old girlfriend, Hwa-yeon, was the only person who supported him. Hwa-yeon, a professional marketer, took control during the opening stages of the wine bar. She made all the business plans, supervised the interior design and began putting her hands in all the decision making regarding the wine bar. Min-sung was a proud of her in the beginning, but as time passed, he realized Hwa-yeon's tastes were quite the opposite. Hwa-yeon wanted a luxurious and flashy setting while Min-sung wanted a more comfortable and cozy one. Soon, this conflict threatens their close relationship. Story 3. Il Baciale Monferrato Rosso This wine means 'matchmaker', so it became famous as a wine for couples. What make it so pleasing for couples? Since Min-sung opened the 'Story of the Wine', regulars like Jin-ju, a cheerful, open-minded young woman, and Hyuk-jun, a calm, dedicated peace corp worker, both enjoyed a bottle of wine alone, but they never went to the store at the same time. In fact, at first look, they didn't seem like they would make a good couple. But one day, they arrived at the same time and Min-sung recommended to both of them 'Il Baciale'. The relationship starts like a fling but unexpectedly leads to a passionate love an unexpected turning point puts them at a crossroad.

