Streets of Ghost Town

 Steve, Smiley, and the Sheriff come to a ghost town looking for missing gold. In flashback, Steve tells the story of Bill Donner who doublecrossed his partners to get the gold. Donner, now blind and in jail, refuses to tell where the gold is hidden. Another one of the films from the Durango Kid series where there's only about 20 minutes of new footage shot; the scenes in the ghost town involving the credited players---Charles Starrett, Smiley Burnette, George Chesebro, Mary Ellen Kay, Don Reynolds, Stanley Andrews. Frank Fenton and the uncredited Jack Ingram---and the remaining footage is taken from two 1946 films in the series, "Gunning For Vengeance" and "Landrush", with the latter dominating most of the running time, but with the majority of the stock-footage scenes covered by a voice-over narration by Charles Starrett telling Sheriff Stanley Andrews the background story that has now led them to the streets of ghost town. The plot here concerns the search for unrecovered loot hidden in the ghost town by double-crossing outlaws. Most of the footage is told in flashback by Starrett, who leaves out the actual ending of "Landrush" to make the scenes from it merge into this film. Plus, when he's talking and the people in the stock footage scenes aren't, then the story can be whatever he says it is and not what may have actually transpired in the original films. This leads to a few oddities such as; Starrett's non-Durango character in this one is Steve Woods, but the handbills he hands out in stock footage from "Landrush" carry the name of his character in that film, Steve Harmon; George Chesebro has the credited role of Bill Donner, but he also plays henchman in the footage from the other two films, neither of which is named Donner; and Bob Kortman plays henchman from two other films, one with a moustache and one without, and the scene continuity has it appearing and disappearing from one scene to the next, and Jock Mahoney flits in and out doubling Starrett in scenes from three different movies, counting this one. The best scene is in the actual original footage when George Chesebro, as the blinded Bill Donner and playing it in his usual over-the-top at full volume style a la Al Picino(or vice-versa since Chesebro came first),is cornered by outlaw Frank Fenton, and tells Fenton that he can't see him but he can hear him, implying some kind of threat to Fenton's welfare. Fenton, who can both see and hear, promptly shoots him dead. And, speaking of that, players Bud Geary and John Tyrrell were both dead when this film was released, but stock footage has extended more than one career.

