Stripes

 Thanks to a run of bad luck and go-nowhere jobs, John convinces Russell to join the army so they can get in shape, likening it to a health spa. Once in boot camp, wiseguy John tangles with his by-the-book Sgt. and becomes the unofficial leader for his platoon, made up mostly of other misfits and assorted losers. After somehow making it through graduation, they are given a special assignment but, thanks to John's romantic interest in a pretty MPO, the other men wind up behind the Iron Curtain until John, Russell, their dates and Sgt. Hulka make a daring rescue attempt in explosive style. John becomes a defacto leader in his basic training platoon as we follow them through training to their first assignment. Included in this is the recruits version of drilling and a small side trip into Czechoslovakia with a top secret combat ready recreational vehicle. When New York City cab driver John Winger is fired from his job, his car is repossessed, he loses his apartment, and his girlfriend leaves him -- all in the same day -- John and his best friend Russell Ziskey decide to join the army. After enlisting, John and Russell are sent to Fort Arnold to undergo basic training under tough drill sergeant Hulka. Hulka is injured by a mortar bomb during basic training, and John has to lead the group in completing their training on their own. After graduation, General Barnicke Assigns Winger, Ziskey, and their platoon to Fort Milano, Italy, to man the EM-50 urban assault vehicle. By this time, sergeant Hulka has recovered from his injuries and has rejoined John, Russell, and the other men. When John and Russell decide to take the EM50 to Germany to pick up their girlfriends, MPs Stella Hansen and Louise Cooper, for a night on the town, the rest of the platoon searches for them because Captain Stillman wants the EM-50 to be put back where it was at. While searching for the EM-50, Stillman and the unit are captured by hostile Russian troops, who take them into Czechoslovakia. Now John, Russell, Stella, and Louise must venture into Czechoslovakia and rescue the guys.

