SUBWAYStories

 The actual experiences of New York City subway riders are dramatized in a collection of 10 intriguing and very different vignettes. The tales showcase an ensemble of familiar faces, and range from stories of compassion and love to reflections on violence and loss. Among them disabled beggar quarrels with a woman and ruins her shoes with his wheelchair, provoking onlookers to wrath and pity; a skittish tourist proves to be her own worst enemy; a newlywed trysts with a mysterious sexpot; a commuter helplessly witnesses a suicide attempt; and, in the most affecting segment, a young woman grieves over her mother's imminent death. 10 short segments losely based on real-life experiences on various New York City underground subways. In "Subway Car from Hell" music player Bill Irwin is late for a gig and tries to find a less crowded subway car to ride in. In "The Red Shoes" a writer and a group of people witness an incident where a snobish wealthy woman assaults an angry and beligerent wheelchair-bound Vietnam veteran for runing over her expensive red shoes showing New York City at it's cynical worst. In "The 5 every morning on his way to work where the old timer gives him advice on various investment tips. But is the old man an angel sent from heaven or just another con artist? In "Fern's Heart of Darkness" tourist Fern McDermott falls victim to her own carelessness in protecting herself and is trapped in a revolving gate for an entire night. In "The Listeners" a group of people listen, but do not invervene, in an argument between a bickering couple named Belinda and Jake. In "Underground" a middle-aged streetwalker offers sympathy and comfort to a young gang member wanting to go straight. "Honey-Getter" has college coed Humera harassed by a duo of young pranksters which pushes her over the edge. "Sax Cantor Riff" has a group of people singing along to a saxphone player including a woman singing to her terminily ill mother over a nearby payphone. "Love on the A Train" has a happliy married man who begins a flirtation every day with a mysterous young woman that rides on the same train, but with ground rules that no names or history of each other be mentioned. "Manhattan Miracle" has a ordinary businessman helplessly watching a young, pregnant woman on the platform opposite him condemplating suicide.

