Summer of Tomorrows

 Meet Daniel Kellam, a twenty-six year old mentally retarded man leading a sheltered life with his police officer brother Alex, and the people who take care of him. Daniel's existence is simple, revolving around his daily visits to the park and the music he listens to on his portable CD player. His nights are simpler, as he sits in his bedroom surrounded by the things he values the most his walls. As Daniel sits there alone, he often hears the quiet notes of a piano drifting through his window as the young woman down the street practices. On a night that would change the rest of his life, Daniel wanders down the street to meet this young woman named Kenna, and to show her that he has written down the music she was practicing. He offers to show her where she's making mistakes, revealing for the first time that despite his handicap, he has an amazing gift. Concerned for him, Kenna tries to convince him to go home, but when her college roommates and their rowdy friends return, things go terribly wrong. Confused and agitated by the hectic activity and the ridicule of a college prankster, Daniel finds himself fleeing, running blindly into the path of an oncoming car seemingly killing him. Thought to be dead, his caretakers and his brother Alex are shocked to find out from the hospital that Daniel is alive and well. With no memory of the accident, Daniel returns home, seemingly unchanged. In the days that follow however, things slowly begin to happen in the form of small miracles. Daniel's goldfish, which had died while he was away, comes back to life in his presence. His speech improves and is no longer slurred and he doesn't have difficulty walking anymore. Though he can no longer read the notes in his musical art, he learns that he can play the piano masterfully and knows things he can't remember learning, including what other people are thinking. As his skills develop, Daniel marshals the courage to ask Kenna out for an evening. What follows is a night on the town ranging from intimate exchanges on the grandiose steps of the historic town courthouse, where Daniel learns that Kenna is suffering from a terminal disease, to a "Grease" style dance off at a downtown nightclub. As the night comes to a close, Daniel recounts the unique nature of his new life and falls asleep for the first time since the accident weeks earlier. Days later, not having heard from him, Kenna finds Daniel sitting in the park he used to visit so frequently. But something is horribly wrong. He has aged twenty years since the time she had last seen him, and suddenly they find their fates tragically aligned. What ensues is a search for the answers that will ultimately define Daniel's existence, and save that of the woman he has come to love.

