Summer Sun Winter Moon

 Blackfeet poet Darrell Robes Kipp, a man striving to save the Blackfeet language, unexpectedly joins the Lewis and Clark Bicentennial Commission to make sure that the American Indian side of history is told. Quirky classical composer Rob Kapilow travels west from Lincoln Center to find inspiration for a commissioned symphony about the Lewis and Clark expedition. When Rob meets Darrell and asks him to collaborate with him on words that will tell the Indian side of history through the new symphony, their "odd couple" collaboration creates a provocative piece of music that connects the Blackfeet seat of Browning, Montana to the rarefied air of symphony halls across the country. Rob Kapilow, a celebrated classical music artist, is commissioned by the St. Louis and Kansas City Symphonies and the Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra to compose a symphonic work with a specific theme of the enduring legacy of the Lewis and Clark expedition. Often referenced as a young Leonard Bernstein, the youthfully energetic Kapilow foregoes his original intent to set the journals of Lewis and Clark to music, choosing to actually re-trace the journey himself as a catalyst for fresh inspiration. Upon engaging tribal representatives out West in active dialogue about how best to convey their stories, Kapilow finds himself overwhelmed at the crossroads of textbook history and the tangible perspective of the American Indian. Seeking to collaborate with Blackfeet tribal member Darrell Robes Kipp, the innovative artist delves into a sharply alternative - and controversial - avenue of perspective the indigenous storyteller's view "from the river bank, not the boat." "There's nothing to celebrate here...not for Indian people," says Darrell Robes Kipp, referencing the planned events for the celebration of the Lewis and Clark Bicentennial. The co-founder of the Nitzipuahsin Blackfeet Language Immersion School, Kipp is a poet and educator who has been laboring to salvage his native people's language from the brink of near-extinction. Enlisted by Kapilow, Kipp agrees to author the libretto for the symphony project, offering his own hand to the composer who dared to reach across the divide. Executive Producer Cynthia Newport and award-winning Director Hugo Perez bring to the national viewing audience Summer Sun Winter Moon's inherent declarations of truth, proving to be important and timely in what it tells us about ourselves, about our place in time, and about the choices we have to make moving forward. While there are two sides to every story, viewers are left haunted by the words of two storytellers with one story that can only be interpreted by each individual.

