Sumolah

 The Sushi Restaurant Association of Kuala Lumpur is organizing their annual underground Sumo tournament. Boleh Sushi, a small sushi joint and last year's runners-up, are short one fighter after losing their cook, Hassan. They have to find a replacement soon. They accidentally find Ramlee. What would happen if a hot headed and unambitious Malay man (Ramlee) was forced to enter the rigorous and challenging world of sumo? Would he give up on the trials and tribulations he finds himself committed to? Or will his relationship with the father-figure he never had create a purpose for him to rise above the challenges and endeavour to do his best? Ramlee is a down and out Malay boy who can't seem to hold down a job, much to his mother's disappointment. Out of a job and out of money, he stumbles across a challenge by sushi restaurant owner Honda to "eat all you can for free food - within a time limit". Hungry and desperate, Ramlee attempts the challenge, and fails. In compensation, Honda lets Ramlee take a job at the restaurant to pay off his due. Ramlee becomes a member of the Boleh Sushi shop staff, along with Haris and Andy. Ramlee is immediately attracted to Honda's beautiful daughter, Siti, who is half-Japanese and half-Malay. He begins to learn the meaning of having good work, good friends and family. One day he learns that part of his obligation is to take part in the Malaysian Sushi Association Amateur Sumo Wrestling Championships held by the local Japanese owners of sushi restaurants. Whilst taking part in the initial friendly bout, Akira, Siti's ex-boyfriend, humiliates him in public. It is only after that that Ramlee finds out that he had been tricked into working for Boleh Sushi because Honda was desperate for a third member for their team. Ramlee has to make a choice - whether to stay on and fight for Boleh Sushi in the upcoming Championships, or to give up on his new-found family. He decides to step up to the challenge and begins training with the boys for the big fight. He learns the meaning of the word "nokotta" - never give up, the fight is not yet won. He learns that no matter what the result, the honor is in fighting the good fight. Ultimately, Ramlee's challenge is to let go of the excuses he has made for himself, and to fight till the end, no matter what.

