Super Mario Sunshine

 Mario and Peach go on a vacation to Isle Defino. But there trip soon gets spoiled after a imposter disguised as Mario paints and pollutes the entire island. So now Mario must clear his name, and clean up the entire island. Mario's vacation goes horribly wrong when he finds someone has polluted Isle Delfino, his destination. Even worse, he perpetrator looks like him but silver colored, and he's been mistaken for the culprit! No one messes with Mario's vacation, so he goes to reveal the impostor and get his name cleared. But he can't clean up the goo without a machine called "Fludd". Can he find out who disguised their self as him and clear his name? After Mario's last adventure, him and his friends decide to take a vacation, but as soon as they arrive at the beautiful Isle Delfino resort, they find the place a total mess with graffiti and pollution everywhere, and the worst part, Mario is being blamed for the mess! Mario is put on trial and sentenced to clean the island all the while returning the Shine Sprites, to the Sun Gate, the source of the islands power. Because of his many action-packed adventures, Mario has decided to take a well-deserved vacation. Mario, Princess Peach, and her butler Toadsworth take her plane and fly to the tropical island of Isle Delfino. From watching in-flight guide videos about this paradise, it seems like the dream vacation. But, when they arrive everything is spoiled. The entire island is dark and polluted the police arrest Mario for the pollution, yet because the true culprit had exact descriptions to Mario's look. Mario is ordered to clean up the entire island, and until then, Mario is not allowed to leave. The pollution itself is not the main problem, though. Shine Sprites, the origin of power, used to have gathered at the Shine Gate, but the pollution caused them to have fled, causing the depressing darkness. So Mario's quest begins to clean up the pollution, retrieve the Shine Sprites, and hunt down the evil impostor.

