Sur Sangam

 The last thread of the Great tradition of Indian Classical Music, Pandit Shivshankar Shastri, is worried about whom to shoulder the responsibility - It's the quest of a great musical mind to find his prodigy! Through his riyaz of life time, he has come to the very core of the musical God - Param shiva. He's the embodiment of music. He finds his prodigy in the form of the son of a dancer (Jayaprada), who has cherished his music from the very beginning... The last thread of the Great tradition of Indian Classical Music, Pandit Shivshankar Shastri (Girish Karnad), is worried about whom to shoulder the responsibility - It's the quest of a great musical mind to find his true prodigy! Through his riyaz of a life time, he has come to the very core of the musical God - Param shiva. He's the embodiment of music. The notes & rhythm talks to him. (naad chhipa tan mein, laya man mein). Due to the ignorance of the masses - Classical music is becoming mis-interpreted & being ignored. He had his share of great respect & great concerts, but it's slowly dying, and not for himself but to keep the tradition live - he's ready to teach the art to a select few, but no one comes his way. When Tulsi (Jayaprada) who knows his greatness, but drifted away in life due to circumstances, sends her son to learn from shastriji. The son absorbs all he can & becomes his true prodigy at the end of the movie. The Music by LP is simply ahead of times, and a true amalgamation of authentic Classical sounds with the vocals from Pandit Rajan Sajan Mishras, Lata Mangeshkar, Suresh Wadkar, Kavita Krishnamurthy. is a real musical treat for the ears of audience. The underplay of emotions is simply over whelming & one should watch the movie to know the greatness of the minds of the classical musicians... Shivshankar Shastri is a learned musician who is very well versed in all aspects of ancient Hindustani music. He also was the Chief Musician in the palaces of a former Mughal emperor. Although he does not show his feelings, he secretly loves Tulsi, a woman of questionable repute, apart of being of a caste much lower than his. A young man, Kanneshwar, who likes his daughter, Sharda, proposes marriage, but is turned away by Shivshankar. His stubborn and rigid ways alienate him from some of his friends and a lot of villagers, and he soon becomes a laughing-stock, and is mocked by young and old alike. He is unable to secure employment for himself, and starts becoming a recluse, and waits for time to try and solve his problems.

