Surrogates

 People are living their lives remotely from the safety of their own homes via robotic surrogates -- sexy, physically perfect mechanical representations of themselves. It's an ideal world where crime, pain, fear and consequences don't exist. When the first murder in years jolts this utopia, FBI agent Greer discovers a vast conspiracy behind the surrogate phenomenon and must abandon his own surrogate, risking his life to unravel the mystery. In a near future, with the development of the robotic, mankind stays at home operating surrogates with their signature to live their lives in the outside world and resolving issues like racism, complex and safety and reducing crime rates. Only a few people live in reservations the traditional way of life without the use of substitutes. When the surrogates of a man and a woman are destroyed by a sophisticated weapon, the FBI agents Tom Greer and Peters are assigned to the case and sooner they discover that the operators have also died. Tom Greer goes further in his investigation and finds that there is a conspiracy involving the army, the company VSI that manufactures the androids, the FBI, The Prophet leader of the humans and the scientist that had developed the surrogate technology Canter. In the future artificial lifeforms called Surrogates are created so that humans can link up with them and go out into the world without having to deal with dangers the world presents. There's a movement led by a man calling himself The Prophet who believes that Surrogates are an abomination and they live in areas where surrogates are not allowed. When a surrogate is attacked supposedly by one of his members but the human controlling it was also killed which is very strange. So FBI agents Greer and Peters investigate and they learn that the human who was killed is the son of the creator of the Surrogates. When the attacker is found, Greer chases him but he ends up in the "No Surrogates" zone and is attacked. Eventually his surrogate is destroyed. Greer then for the first time in years goes out and continues to investigate and discovers that there's a lot going on. In the not too distant future, technology allows humans to live their lives through robots they call surrogates. Humans have in effect cocooned themselves in their homes, never venturing outside. Rather, they explore life through their surrogates who may or may not resemble them. Tom Greer and his partner Peters are FBI agents assigned to investigate the destruction of two surrogates that has also caused the unthinkable human hosts were also killed. The use of surrogates is not universally endorsed with some humans living in technology and machine-free zones. Led by a man called The Prophet, the fear is that they have put their hands on a weapon that would fundamentally change human society. Greer believes they have also put their hands on a weapon that could fundamentally change society, though he begins to wonder if that might be a good thing.

