Sustainable Table

 Over nine months, Mischa Hedges and Digital Sense Productions traveled the west coast to learn more about our food system. During production, he found that the standard methods of producing food do not take environmental or human health costs into consideration. He also explored the many alternatives to the current agricultural system. Sustainable Table includes interviews with Champion Vegan Bodybuilder Fred Kirschenmann, PhD for Sustainable Agriculture Marc Grossman Workers Actors/activists Ed Begley Jr., James Cromwell and many more. Digital Sense worked with individuals representing The Sierra Club, P.E.T.A., The University of California at Davis, Organic Valley Dairy Farms, Chapman University and many others while producing this film. The result is a documentary that takes an unadulterated look into the food you eat. VIEWER QUOTES "...it all goes down with little sense of preachiness. In fact, the film's overall impression is that it is oriented toward getting the average American to watch without fear or alienation." -VegNews Magazine "I can't tell you how many times we told our children to eat their steak or they wouldn't get any dessert. This film has profoundly affected the way I will feed my family in the future." -Anonymous viewer "There is no question that the film itself brings up a lot of interesting topics, and if nothing else really does make you stop and think about what you are consuming and why."-Sacatomato food blog "I have been showing it to everyone and really trying to spread the word. I have become vegetarian and am doing what I can to help. It made a huge impact on me and I know it will to many more people also." -Viewer Produced and directed by Mischa Hedges, Sustainable Table is a feature documentary that takes an unadulterated look into the food you eat. What's on your plate? Where does it come from? What effects does it have on the environment and your body? What can you do to help? There are many questions about the sustainability of our current agricultural practices. This film tries to find some of the answers to problems that we face today and will face tomorrow.

