Ta Ra Rum Pum

 A poor New York resident, who is of Indian origin, dreams of becoming a fast car race driver. He endeavors, and his efforts are rewarded when he selected by a little-known group called 'RACING SADDLES'. He joins them and soon becomes their ace race driver. This man, whose name is Rajveer, then meets with a rich American woman, also of Indian origin, whose name is Radhika. Both fall in love with each other. They cannot get married, because Radhika's family hates Rajveer mainly because he is very poor. But Radhika is very stubborn, so she marries him. She loses all her rights to her family's wealth. They get married and become parents of two children. They also become very rich. Then Rajveer has an accident which changes their lives forever. They get into debt and stand to lose everything. Will Radhika be forced to return back to her family? Rajveer Singh works as a pit stop crew worker at the New York speedway and dreams of becoming a race car driver himself one day. Fate has a pleasant surprise in store for him when he is selected as the driver for a down-and-out team called Racing Saddles. He falls in love with Radhika and she marries him against her wealthy father's wish. Over the years, they are blessed with two adorable children, Princess and Champ, and Rajveer "R.V." becomes the highest ranking race car driver in the US. But a racing accident puts him out of the racing circuit for a year and when he returns he discovers that he has lost his touch. He is fired from the team and the family is forced to relocate from their posh mansion to a poorer suburb. As the family battles their problems whether RV will return to the race tracks remains to be seen. Rajveer Singh works as a tire-changer in the New York Speedway, but has lofty dreams of becoming a race car driver. He does not have any degree, has working knowledge of reading and writing English and Hindi, and perhaps the only Italian word known to him is 'Ferrari'. He is unable to save any money, is a lavish spender, in debt, unable to pay rent, is always behind schedule, and lives only for the moment. One day he hails a cab driven by Hariprasad Patel, bribes him so that he can drive it and be on time at the race-track. Hariprasad and his passenger, Radhika Banerjee, are very impressed by Rajveer, and they offer him a job with 'Racing Saddles' and the later marries him, much to the chagrin of her businessman dad, Subho, who refuses to attend their marriage, and tells Radhika that one day she will be so poor that she will leave Rajveer and return to him. Rajveer achieves his dream, he outraces every racer in over 50 races for 8 successive years - during this time period they become parents of Priya and Ranveer, as well as own a fancy bungalow. Then Rajveer meets with a serious accident, is hospitalized, recuperates and returns to the racetrack after one year only to lose - again and again. Racing Saddles' owner, Billy Bhatia, fires him, leading to Rajveer losing everything and his past of being unable to manage his finances coming back to haunt him. The family re-locate to a rented room in a dilapidated building. It does like Subho's prediction about Rajveer did come true. Watch what impact this destitution has on him, and the Singh family, as they try to adjust to this new 'Reality TV' life. Rajveer Singh has an immense passion for driving and dreams of making it big on the racecourse. After being discovered by his manager Harry, he meets Radhika Shekar Rai Banerjee and instantly falls for her. He joins Speeding Saddles, a failing race team, and transforms from Rajveer Singh to RV the race car driver. He wins his first race and keeps winning, making him quite wealthy. What started as an innocent love blossoms into a serious relationship as months pass by. Radhika is a great pianist, majoring in music at Columbia University, whereas Rajveer has no degree or any educational background. His lack of education and planning earns the disapproval of Radhika's father, Subho Shekar Roy Banerjee. Radhika leaves her father and marries RV. She forgets about her degree and takes on her job as a wealthy housewife therefore Radhika Shekar Rai Banerjee turns into Shona. Their family is complete with the birth of two children, Priya aka Princess and Ranveer aka Champ. Luck follows him as RV and he is soon proclaimed the number one race car driver in the USA. However tragedy strikes when RV is involved in an accident whilst racing and he is hospitalized for a few months. He tries to make a comeback but the trauma of the accident mentally scars him. After a string of failures, he is forced to auction his house and move with his family to a run-down Bronx-style neighborhood. RV and Radhika decide to hide the terrible truth from their children by saying that they are part of a reality television show where they have to live a poor life in order to win a mythical grand prize. The family struggle with their new lifestyle but stick together by using a mixture of fantasy and cheerfulness to pull through. However an incident forces RV to make a decision and reclaim the life that was taken away from him. He goes in a heart pounding race and ends up winning. He reclaims everything he had lost and lives happily ever after.

