Taarzan

 Devesh (Ajay Devgan) was Raj's father who was a futuristic car designer. He owned an old car, which was passed down to him from his father and he hoped to pass it on to his son, Raj. After many hours designing, he shows his design to a car company owned by four men (Pankaj Dheer, Sadashiv Amrapurkar, Shakti Kapoor and Mukesh Tiwari), little did he know that they would turn around and patent the design and take credit for it. In an attempt to get justice, Devesh reports the incident to the police and later finds out the hard way that the police officer was part of the deception. After Devesh confronts the men, they fight and Devesh is knocked out and left unconscious. The men decide to place him in his car and dump the car in the nearby lake. Devesh drowns to death leaving behind his mother and his young son. A few years pass by and Raj has grown up and enters college. Raj is a simple looking, geeky guy who is made fun of because of the way he looks. He meets Priya (Ayesha Takia) who has just returned from London and together they form a relationship. One day while passing by Raj sees his father's old car in a scrap yard. He buys the car and transforms it into "Tarzan", a futuristic looking car that he builds in memory of his father. The car has a life of its' own and soon becomes a killing machine, taking revenge on the men who killed Devesh. The suspicion falls on Raj and he becomes the prime suspect. While visiting Raj's home, Priya's father sees a photo of Devesh and Raj and realizes who Raj is. Priya's father is one of the men who killed Raj's father. He forbids Priya from seeing Raj and decides to send her back to London. The climax of the movie is where you learn that Devesh's spirit controls the car and he cannot move on to the after world unless he gets revenge and his family learns the truth about his death. After he accomplishes both tasks, his soul is free and he moves on. Raj and Priya unite and all ends well. Widower Deven Chaudhary lives a middle-class life with his mom, and only child, a son, Raj. He spends considerable time designing and perfecting the perfect car, calling it DC, and registering it's patent. He also looks after an older model car, handed over to him by his late father, and calls it "Tarzan". He meets with Rakesh Kapoor and his partners, who do applaud his design, but are unable to meet with his conditions. Shortly thereafter, Deven does meet Mukund Joshi, who is able to accept Deven's demands. Deven returns home, tells his mother the good news, leaves home the next day, meets with an accident and dies, leaving his mother to bring up him son, Raj. Years later Raj has grown up, works part-time in a garage, attends college where he meet Nisha and both are in love. Raj gets a nostalgic surprise when he comes across a car wreck that resembles "Tarzan". He then borrows money from his grandmother, buys the wreck, not only restores it, but updates it considerably to make it look shiny and new. What Raj does not know that he will soon be implicated in a number of horrendous deaths, all involving his new car, and a Police Inspector named Khurana, who is determined to place him arrest, try him in Court, and ensure that he is hanged. Raj Chaudhary attends college and works part-time at Kartar Singh's garage to earn a living, here is where he learns different arts how to design fustic engines and cars. One day while returning home from college, Raj passes by a junk yard, saw a wrecked car and took a liking to it, brought it and bring it home. Raj spent hours and hours designing the wreck and eventually restores it to a car, with the latest technology systems, makes it look new and shiny. He decides to call this new car "Tarzan". Unknown to Raj that this new car will turn his life upside down of having the worst nightmare in being implicated for a number of innocent lives taken and put him in the bad books of the police.

