Talleres clandestinos

 Young Bolivian Juana gets a job as a sewer in the neighboring country Argentina, wherefore she has to leave her husband and her baby-son. After arriving in Buenos Aires, the promised factory turns out to be a prison. Textile goods for luxury brands are produced under inhumane circumstances long working days, sexual abuse and no permission to exit the factory. After a series of fatal incidents, she tries to escape from the factory by any means. A job as a seamstress tempts Juana, a young Bolivian woman, to neighbouring Argentina. Her husband and child remain behind in their homeland. It doesn't take long for the illusion of financial gain to burst - Juana is being exploited and must produce textiles for a luxury brand. Her employer's demands become ever more absurd, working conditions become unbearable. When her son becomes ill, Juana starts making plans to return, but as far as her employer is concerned, leaving is not an option. (prod. note) A silver lining with a cloud. At the film's very beginning young Bolivian Juana (Juana Salgueiro) has the extreme fortune to be chosen for a seamstress job in Argentina. But she soon realizes that the bus to Buenos Aires won't be taking her baby or husband, and nothing can be done about it. After a quick goodbye, Juana leaves her husband and crying child behind. And things are no better once she in arrives in the capital. Juana spends 16 hours each day sewing clothes in an illegal sweatshop. Both the boss and customer push the workers outfits must be put together in record time, brand-name clothes, of course. Someone else will do it if they don't. The workers sleep at the factory. Juana finds out that her child_s sick, and she faces the choice of either returning home and giving up the little money she has earned or continuing to slave away. A job as a seamstress tempts Juana, a young Bolivian woman, to neighbouring Argentina. Her husband and child remain behind in their homeland. It doesn't take long for the illusion of financial gain to burst - Juana is being exploited and must produce textiles for a luxury brand. Her employer's demands become ever more absurd, working conditions become unbearable. When her son becomes ill, Juana starts making plans to return, but as far as her employer is concerned, leaving is not an option.

