Tangewala

 Rai Bahadur Kishandas, due to his weakness for alcohol and women drives his wife and children out of the house. Suddenly, his fortune takes a turn and he is reduced to the state of a beggar. While his wife Laxmi raises their two kids against all odds, the two children being Gauri and Rajoo. Rajoo, who later becomes a tangewala. Oneday, Laxmi feels a sudden urge to see her husband, so the of a pretext of a pilgrimage goes to meet him. But, to her despair, she doesn't find him there. On the other hand Rajoo and Gauri gives an old beggar refuge in their house, not knowing that he is their father in real life. By the time Laxmi returns, the old man has left the house. Paro is in love with Rajoo and refuses the marriage proposal of a Zamindar. He wants to take revenge on her and so tries to woo Gauri, but Rajoo has already arranged for Gauri's marriage with someone else. Rajoo, is disappointed to know that Gauri is pregnant with the Zamindar' baby. Rajoo goes to the Zamindar and demands justice, but the cruel Zamindar does not listen to him. Rajoo decides to leave the village with his family. In the meanwhile Rai Bahadur comes to know that Rajoo and Gauri are his kids. But unfortunately by the time he reaches their house they have all left for their new destination. Rajoo rearranges Gauri's marriage, but on the eve of marriage Gauri leaves with her child, leaving Rajoo to face humiliation once again. Does Rai Bahadur find his family again? Does Gauri return back to her house? Watch the family drama in Tangewala! Rich and wealthy zamindar Thakur (Sujit Kumar) is very arrogant, alcoholic and a womanizer. He has his munimji (Kanhaiyalal) procure women for him frequently. In order to get even with Rajoo (Rajendra Kumar), Thakur asks his munim to get Rajoo's sister, Gauri (Kumud Chhugani). He and Gauri meet, and has slowly Gauri trusting him, then he marries her in an isolated temple with the munim posing as a priest. Subsequently, Gauri gets pregnant, and she and Rajoo go to the Thakur so that he can marry her, but the Thakur denies ever knowing her, leave alone marrying her, and munimji supports the Thakur. Gauri and her family are devastated and leave the village. Gauri gives birth to a baby boy, and Rajoo arranges for Gauri to re-marry, however, on the day of the marriage she runs away. Rajoo's love life with Paro (Mumtaz) is on hold, and Rajoo's mom is awaiting the return of her husband, so with Gauri running away they have now to re-locate again. Rajoo returns to the Thakur to avenge his sister, instead he is arrested by the police and jailed, leaving his mother, nephew, and Gauri to fend for themselves.

