Tango & Cash

 Ray Tango and Gabriel Cash are narcotics detectives who, while both being extremely successful, can't stand each other. Crime Lord Yves Perret, furious at the loss of income that Tango and Cash have caused him, frames the two for murder. Caught with the murder weapon on the scene of the crime, the two have alibi. Thrown into prison with most of the criminals they helped convict, it appears that they are going to have to trust each other if they are to clear their names and catch the evil Perret. Ray Tango is a Los Angeles narcotics cop who dresses in fancy suits, wears wire-rim glasses, and talks to his stockbroker more than he talks to his mother. Gabriel Cash is a Los Angeles narcotics cop who has long, disheveled hair, and dresses in worn-out sweatshirts. Even though they are rivals, Tango and Cash are the two best narcs in LA, which infuriates drug kingpin Yves Perret. Perret wants Tango and Cash out of the way, so Perret frames them for the murder of an undercover FBI agent. Perret's plan is to have Tango and Cash killed in prison in order to avoid risking all-out war with the LAPD. But Tango and Cash accept a plea bargain that will give them 18 months in a minimum-security prison, then Perret arranges for their destination to be diverted to a maximum-security prison where Perret's minions proceed to torture Tango and Cash. Tango and Cash are forced to work together in a spectacular escape from the prison. After the escape, Tango and Cash set out to prove their innocence, and Cash has a romance with Tango's sister Catherine "kiki" Tango. Ray Tango and Gabe Cash are two L.A. based cops who work in different precincts. They have seized millions of dollars of drugs and weapons that belong to a man named Perret. Realizing that they have to be dealt with, Perret, but not wanting to make them martyrs by killing them, frames them. Sensing that the evidence against them was to overwhelming, Tango and Cash's lawyers advise them to take a plea bargain, on the guarantee that they would be sent to a minimum security prison. But Perret arranges for them to be sent to a hell hole and it's there that he plans to have killed and make it appear that one of the men they sent there killed them. One of the prison's officials, who is an old friend of Cash, tells them that they have to escape, which they do. They then go out and try and find the man who framed them. Tango and Cash are two supercool L.A. cops who get busted by super-villain Perret. Sent to jail for a crime they haven't commited they must break out and prove their innocence.

