Tansen

 Renowned, talent singer Tansen is settled in a small village. He has a lover whom he loves madly namely Tani. His singing talent pampers everyone in his village namely the animals, the Maharaja's and other living organisms. A Maharaja Badshah Mohamed Jallaudin is pleased with Tansen singing talents and invites him to his palace. There, Tansen sings and the musical instruments start accompanying him on their own. Akbar, impressed with this, appoints Tansen as his Sangeet Samrat. When it is Akbar's birthday, Tansen has a visitor - none other than Tani, and he refuses to attend Akbar's birthday celebration. Akbar himself comes to Tansen's house, and meets with Tani. He tells Tani that Tansen is already married, and that she should leave immediately. Broken hearted Tani leaves and seeks some answers from life and a crunch that might as well destroys Tansen for life. Orphaned at a very young age, Tansen lives in a small village with his paternal uncle. He and Tani, his childhood sweetheart, are madly in love with each other and virtually inseparable. One day an elephant goes crazy and Tansen soothes it with his singing. This incident brings a local Maharajah to Tansen's doorstep, who extends his hand in friendship. Then on another occasion, while romancing Tani, his singing miraculously fills trees and shrubs with leaves and flowers, this incident is brought to Badshah Mohamed Jallaudin Akbar's attention, and Tansen is invited to his palace. There, Tansen sings and the musical instruments start accompanying him on their own. Akbar, impressed with this, appoints Tansen as his Sangeet Samrat. When it is Akbar's birthday, Tansen has a visitor - none other than Tani, and he refuses to attend Akbar's birthday celebration. Akbar himself comes to Tansen's house, and meets with Tani. He tells Tani that Tansen is already married, and that she should leave immediately. A devastated Tani disappears from Tansen's life. The question remains, why did Akbar ask Tani to leave, and who exactly is Tansen married to?

