Taxi No. 9 2 11

 Raghav Shastri and Jai Mittal belong to two different strata of the society . Raghav is a hot-tempered , world-weary taxi driver who lies to his family about working as an insurance salesman . Jai is the heir to a sprawling business empire , your stereotypical spoiled rich man's son . After his father's demise , he leans that in his Late father's will , all the property and business has been transferred to Arjun Bajaj , his father's close friend . Jai challenges the will in court , saying that he possesses the original will safely sored away in a security vault . On the day of the hearing he hires Raghav's taxi to take him to the vault building , constantly nags him about driving too slowly which leads to speeding and accident . Jai gets away from the scene and reaches his destination , only to realize that he has dropped his vault key accidentally in Raghav's car . Raghav is arrested for the accident but not before he finds Jai's key . Jai is desperate to get the key from Raghav , but wily Raghav refuses to comply . The duo begin a dangerous cat-and-mouse game which could either destroy their respective worlds , or make them see the world in a new light. After being fired from 23 jobs in 15 years, Andheri-resident, Raghav Shastri, takes a loan from Tiwari and operates a taxi, but tells his Chawl-residing wife, Sunita and school-going son, Rishabh, that he works with an insurance company. At night he parks his cab 2 kilometers away from his residence, dresses up in a formal shirt and tie, and walks home. Grumpy, alcoholic and cranky, one day he has a run-in with an impatient, arrogant and wealthy passenger, Jai Mittal, contesting a widely publicized last will and testament of his late father, Shyam. Jai pressurizes Raghav to speed-up, resulting in a collision and subsequent arrest of Raghav by a Havaldar from Khar Police Station. He retains a vault key belonging to Jai which he refuses to return, and is held in a cell. While being transferred to Andheri Police Station, he manages to escape, and returns home - only to find that Jai has informed Sunita about his being a lowly taxi-driver. As Sunita and Rishabh prepare to depart for Nasik, he decides to teach Jai and his sweetheart, Rupali, a lesson that will end up changing their lives forever.

