Teaching Mrs. Tingle

 Leanne is salutatorian when she needs to be valedictorian to get her scholarship to Harvard. The only class she is worse than the leader in is history, taught by Mrs. Tingle, and the teacher hates her. When an attempt to get ahead in Mrs. Tingle's class goes awry, mayhem ensues and friendships, loyalties and trust are tested by the teacher's intricate mind-games. The naive, and very bright Leigh Ann Watson is a senior who is one point from being her class' valedictorian and from getting a scholarship to Harvard. That one thing in her way is her sly History teacher, Mrs. Eve Tingle. Mrs. Tingle is the teacher of a cutthroat class, in which Leigh Ann is getting a "C" for. The school's outcast Luke Churner snatches Tingle's upcoming test answers, and delivers it to Leigh Ann. Mrs. Tingle finds it in Leigh Ann's bag and reports it to the principal, who luckily was not present. That night Leigh Ann, her friend "Jo Lynn" and Luke visit Mrs. Tingle's house to reason and confront her. The conversation ends in a deadly accident. Leigh Ann and her friends clean up the place and carries Mrs. Tingles unconscious body to her bed and ties her up. She wakes up and the 3 students try and compromise, but does Mrs. Tingle just want to loosen them up before her own attack. All her life, Leigh Ann Watson has done the right things. But when she doesn't get an A in her history class which will make her Valedictorian, she immediately blames Mrs. Tingle. Mrs. Tingle is the most cruel teacher in all of Grandsboro High. While Leigh Ann and her friends Luke and Jo Lynn are in the gym, Luke pulls out Tingle's final test to cheat off of. Leigh Ann is about to give it back when Mrs. Tingle walks in. She threatens to report Leigh Ann when the principal returns back to school the next day. Unfortunately, Leigh Ann is not going to let this happen and shows up with her friends by her side to confront Mrs. Tingle. It's not possible so just when things couldn't get worse, they drag her upstairs and tie her to her bed. Now, they have forty-eight hours to get Mrs. Tingle to compromise. But, will Tingle give in or have a little fun first? Leigh Ann Watson is a teenage student at Grandsboro High. An "A" in history would make her valedictorian and get her a scholarship to Harvard. When she turns in her history project, a 365 day diary of a girl accused in the Salem witch trials, a 6 month effort, she receives a "C" from history teacher Mrs. Tingle, the meanest teacher at Grandsboro High. This gives an opportunity for Marybeth Carter, a rival student, to achieve an "A" and become valedictorian. As Leigh Ann tries to catch up doing extra credit by setting up graduation seating with her best friend, Jo Lynn, history class failure Luke Churner, enters with Mrs. Tingle's final exam cheat sheet. Leigh Ann is caught with it and Mrs. Tingle threatens to tell the Principal about it. The result would have been expulsion, so the trio of teenagers attempt to regain Leigh Ann's innocence by reasoning with Mrs. Tingle. When their attempt fails, they attack Mrs. Tingle and tie her to her bed. Is there a possible way to prove Leigh Ann innocent?

