Teen Wolf

 Teen discovers that puberty for him means he turns into a werewolf. One of the beneficial side effects is that it also turns him into a top-notch basketball player. But will his notoriety cost him his friends and can he find true love? Meet Scott Howard. He is a struggling high school student with problems. He is on a lackluster basketball team with a lame duck coach, he is having problems getting noticed by the prettiest girl in his school, Pamela Wells (who already has a boy friend who wants to ruin Scott's life named Mick Mcallister). But in the middle of it all, he feels an effects of a dog whistle and he itches everywhere and even discovers that his nails are longer and sharp. When he came home from a party, he discovers his new problem. He is a half human-wolf hybrid. He tries to keep this a secret, but during a basketball game the secret comes out and it helped Scott to turn his life around, the basketball team starts to become a contender for the state championships. He became very popular, and he was discovered by Pamela, and begin to go out with each other (despite that Pamela is still going out with Mick). But Scott's father warns him about turning into the wolf out of anger. So, Scott must watch his anger as he can still win Pamela's heart and the High School Basketball State Championship game. Scott is a young boy on a struggling basketball team. He is desperately seeking another girl who just doesn't seem to notice him, until he begins turning into a wolf. Once this change occurs and it is accepted at school and social events, Scott turns into the most liked and talked about person in town. He gets the girl and the basketball team is doing great, but he begins to want things to be back to normal. Hairy Palms are just the start of Scott Howard's problems. He already has girl problems, yearning for a fellow female classmate's attention, his school basketball team can't win any matches and rapidly reaching his late teens he feels too "normal". However, with a full moon approaching Scott starts to feel different and when the "dog whistle" blows he realizes he's not "normal" after all. The "Teen Wolf" is finally born, claws and "Bee Gee" style hairdo and to his surprise finds that being a werewolf is in the family blood, just that his father, Harold Howard, was hoping it might have "skipped a generation". Ensuing pressure on the basketball front brings the Teen Wolf to the public's attention and for a while he can do no wrong in the whole of the school's eyes, in fact he doesn't miss a shot! His best friend, Stiles, sees money making opportunities and even Pamela, the teen temptress he longed to date, finally gives him something to howl about. Before long things take a turn and the Wolf's persona takes a few knocks on and off court and his popularity is questioned. But the only person who knows that the real Scott should prevail is Boof, his childhood best friend.

