Teen Idol

 "Little Jenny Greenly, everybody's best friend" has just witnessed the kidnapping of Betty-Ann mulvaney. The doll is the most important thing to the school's Latin teacher and when Jenn is called to the office she thinks it's to be questioned. It turns out that she is being charged with the biggest secret of her life. Teen Heart throb Luke Striker is coming to her school to research a role and she will be his student guide. The admin staff at the school knows she'll be able to handle this because she's always been the secret keeper. Her natural confidant quality won her the position of Ask Annie in the school paper. With this knew event she forgets about the "kidnapping" for a time and focuses on keeping the celebrity's identity a secret. Everything goes fine, except for a few complaints about the way the students treat a certain girl who is a bit over weight and trys too hard to fit in (they call her Cara cow), until the Show Choir's car wash to raise money for the dresses the girls have to wear to competition. There Luke "outs" himself by accidentally making visible a tattoo he'd gotten at a well publicized commitment ceremony with one of his former co-stars (they had broken up). In a matter of minutes he is being swarmed by adoring fans. when he is finally freed from the crowd he takes Jenn to the condo he is renting. There he talks about his opinions of her and her school mates. Long ago Jenns best friend Trina had called her mayonnaise because she held every one together like mayo holds together a sand which. She tell Luke this and he says that that isn't the right condiment. He says she's special sauce and that she can change her school for the better. when she gets back to her house Trine questions her about her conversation with Luke and tells her of her plan to ask Luke to spring fling but is is the revealed that Luke has already asked someone. Jenn. and she said yes. in the time leading up to spring fling. Trina and Jenn stop talking Trina is dumped by her boyfriend/movie ticket and Jenn quits show choir during this time the only person who still speaks to Jenn aside from Luke (who is now back in California) is Scott Bennet the editor of the school paper and a long time friend of Jenn's. He aids in the rescue of Betty-Ann and goes to the anti-spring-fling party thrown by another student on the paper's staff.at spring fling Jenn and Luke are voted King and Queen and during their traditional dance Jenn finds out that Scotts ex is now Lukes boyfriend. Now free from her date, Jen and her friends take off in the lime to the anti party. there we find out that Cara (who had been made over earlier) and Kwang (the paper staff member who is also overweight and the person who threw the party)had gotten together. Scott takes Jenn into the woods where he continues a discussion about a book they had both read (they both enjoy sci-fi and this book happens to be Lucifer's Hammer) he says that he wouldn't let actors into a society after the apocalypse. While he speaks he plays with a piece of queen Anne's lace and when he goes to pull the center of the flower out Jenn stops him remembering that if you pull out the center of queen Anne's lace the flower dies. When she does this Scott begins kissing her but when they hold each other close he corsage pokes her and she pulls away. Scott thinks she doesn't actually like him and asks what's wrong. he apologizes and starts talking about how he had to kiss her because he'd never get another chance. he thought Luke and Jenn had really been going out despite her many assurances that they were just friends. and he keeps talking about how they met again after not seeing each other for so long that he realized he liked her but when she agreed to go to the dance with Luke he thought that she was taken. But she again assures Scott she does not love Luke but instead she tells him that she loves him. and the kiss again. the story ends with Scott and Jenn together and Jenn contemplationg a career in politics. This information is based on the book not the movie but is all accurate by the way of the original book by Meg Cabot High school junior, Jenny Greenley, must keep the identity of hot teen idol, Luke Striker, secret from everyone at Clayton High School -- including from her best friend who's madly in love with him. When his true identity is accidentally revealed, Jenny must face repercussion from everyone in school, including her best friend. Can she resist falling for Luke, or will she find that true love lies right before her eyes.

