Tekken 2

 A worldwide martial arts tournament was nearing its finale. A large purse of prize money which was to be awarded to the fighter who could defeat Heihachi Mishima in the final round provided incentive for warriors from all over the globe. Financed and sponsored by the giant financial groups, the Mishima Zaibatsu, the first Tekken tournament began with eight fighters, all of whom had emerged victorious in death matches held all over the world, all motivated by different motives, all possessing the skill and power to crumble mountains. Many battles were fought. But only one lone warrior emerged with the right to challenge Heihachi Mishima for the of King of the Iron Fists. This warrior was Kazuya, Heihachi's cold blooded son. Bearing the scar given to him by Heihachi, he enters into vicious combat with his father on the same field where Heihachi last struck down his own son and dropped him into a trench at age five. After a grueling battle which raged on for hours, Kazuya emerged victorious by utilizing the skills which had been passed down from generation to generation of the Mishima clan. As Heihachi's broken body lay on the ground, Kazuya dropped to his knees and slowly lifted his father into his arms. Walked slowly to the edge of the same cliff where his father had left him to die, stared out over the landscape of all that was now his, and let go of his father's body. As Heihachi's body plummeted, Kazuya's smile gleamed in the sunlight... One year has passed. The Mishima Zaibatsu under Kazuya's leadership has become even more powerful with its tendrils reaching to all corners of the world. Soon after his father's apparent death, Kazuya disappears into the shadows. However, rumors of his immense power, and a dark side, slowly begin to spread throughout the world. Exactly one year after the end of the first Tekken, a message is relayed from the Mishima Zaibatsu fortress to news agencies all over the world announcing a second tournament with a prize a thousand times that of the first. So begins the tournament...

