Teri Kasam

 Dolly has been brought up by her rich brother in the most lavish fashion. Tony is from a poor family and studies in the same college as Dolly. He is in love with Dolly but is shy to admit it. Dolly however loves a voice and when she knows that it is Tony's voice, she decides to marry him. But Tony refuses to marry unless his sister Shanti is married. So Dolly brother marries Shanti. Dolly's arrogance creates tension in the lives of everyone. She disrespects Tony's mother and admits her to a general ward of a hospital. When Tony learns this, he is infuriated and leaves his wife and his job. He takes to singing as profession and becomes a famous singer. What follows is a tale of realization on Dolly's and Tony's part. Dolly is a spoiled rich girl, who has fallen in love with Deepak "Tony", a poor would-be musician. They get married while Dolly's brother Rakesh marries Tony's sister Shanti. However, after marriage, Tony's devotion to his mother causes them to drift apart. Dolly puts her mother-in-law in a hospital ward when she is sick. Furthermore, she treats her mother-in-law like a maid in front of her rich friends, some of whom are scheming to break up the married couple and reunite her with her ex-boyfriend, Monty. Tony slaps Dolly and demands that she apologize to his mother. She refuses and leaves. Tony quits his job at Rakesh's company and becomes a professional singer. Rakesh forbids Shanti to visit Tony. Yet Rakesh is the one trying to reunite Dolly and Tony to no avail. Will Dolly and Tony make up? How far will the arrogance go before they make up? Watch the movie and find out. Dolly and Rakesh are the sole heirs to a multi-million estate, and they live their luxuriously. Rakesh is the responsible one of the two, and is responsible for managing the family business, as well as monetarily covering up Dolly's costly mistakes. Dolly's love is a singer named Tony. While on a holiday, she meets with a young man named Deepak, and after a few misunderstandings, they come to like each other. Dolly is thrilled to find out that Deepak really is Tony, and she decides that he is the only man she is going to marry. In the meantime, Deepak's sister, Shanti, has taken up employment with Rakesh's estate as a cook. Rakesh adores her cooking, and finds her very attractive. He proposes marriage to her. Both couples are married in great pomp and ceremony. When the ceremonies end, both couples hope to live happily ever after, but fate has other plans for them. Will Shanti and Dolly be able to adjust to their newfound happiness and lives? Or will they attempt to make changes in the lives of their respective spouses?

