Terminator 2

 Nearly 10 years have passed since Sarah Connor was targeted for termination by a cyborg from the future. Now her son, John, the future leader of the resistance, is the target for a newer, more deadly terminator. Once again, the resistance has managed to send a protector back to attempt to save John and his mother Sarah. Sequel to Terminator. Skynet, the 21st century computer waging a losing war on humans sends a second terminator back in time to destroy the leader of the human resistance while he is still a boy. His mother is the only one who knows of the existence of the Terminators, human-like robots that exist only to kill and are nearly indestructible, and Sarah, the boy's mother is currently in a state mental hospital because of her 'delusions'. A second protector is sent back to the past by the Human resistance to protect John Connor, their future leader, at all costs. In the year 2029, a computer called Skynet is fighting against a human resistance, after having nearly destroyed the rest of humanity in 1997. Skynet has found a way to send some of it's warriors, called Terminators, back in time. This is the story of the Terminator sent to kill the resistance leader in 1995, while he is still a child. The resistance sends a reprogrammed Terminator back to 1995 to protect the young man. The question is, can they survive against the new prototype liquid metal Terminator while preventing the creation of Skynet? It has been ten long years since a Terminator failed to kill Sarah Connor and her unborn son, John. Now, Skynet has sent back another Terminator. This one being more advanced than the last one. John Connor, who is now ten years old, is the target. The future John sends back a replica of the Terminator that tried to kill him back in time to 1995. It's Terminator vs. Terminator. In the last movie a cyborg was sent from the future to kill Sarah Connor, but he failed. Now a much more powerful one sent from the future to kill Sarah's son - John Connor, the leader of the future rebels. A terminator was send from the future once more, but this time to protect Connor. The only problem is that the terminator who was send to kill Connor is much more powerful and clever than the one who was send to protect him. Moreover, none can help Connor, since they do not believe in robots. Now Connor and his protector has no choice but to survive on their own.

