Texas Jack

 Jack is looking for the man that was responsible for the death of his sister after he hired her as a school teacher. When he runs into school teacher Ann who was just hired by Corey, he soon realizes Corey is the man he is after. Lacking proof, he works on Corey's nerves hoping to get a confession from him. Texas Jack's Immense Medicine Show is playing a small western town when a drunk, Cal Kramer, constantly interrupts and jeers the two comedians Nip and Tuck, probably with good reason since they are following Starlight the Wonder Horse who can add and multiply and tell the age and disposition of the patrons, and no good act ever follows an animal act. Texas Jack gets fed up and whips up on Kramer and the sheriff runs the show out of town. Riding ahead of the show the next morning on Starlight, whose star billing does not keep him from serving as a steed, Jack finds Ann Hall waiting at a flag station for a wagon to take her to the border town of La Hunta, where she has been hired by mail by saloon owner Dan Carey to, she thinks, teach school. The still-drunk Kramer shows up in a buckboard and tells her he has been sent to fetch her, but his actions scare the horses, they bolt and Jack rides to the rescue. Whipping Kramer for the second time, Jack leaves him in a ditch and drives her to La Hunta, after telling the show troopers to join him there. Skinny, a small boy that looks like he wandered over from the "Great Expectations" set, who makes money washing and currying horses, enters the saloon and hits up Biff Jones, Carey's chief henchie, for money owed. Jones, since there isn't a dog present to kick, beats up on Skinny. Jack also whips up on Jones, and makes the rest of the barflies cough up the money they also owe Skinny. Jack, back at the medicine show, tells Barney that his long search has finally came to an end. Dang if Jack isn't using the Medicine Show as a cover for his operations in tracing a man who, two years before, lured his sister across the border under the pretense of placing her in a school teacher's job, but forced her to become an "inmate" of a shady dance hall in Mexico, with the result she committed suicide. Jack is positive that Carey, then known as Andrew Cole, is his man and has the same intentions toward Ann.

