Thalapathi

 Surya (Rajnikanth) is an orphan raised in a slum. He finds a friend in the local Godfather (Mamooty). They rule the town and forms a parallel government. Things are well until new district collect(Aravind Swami), step -brother of Surya takes charge. Surya finds his mom (Sreevidya) and decides to surrender. 15 year old Kalyani gives birth to a baby boy, wraps him up in a yellow cloth, and leaves him in goods train coach which contains bags of rice. This child is transported in this manner, until the train comes to a stop, and some children enter this coach to steal the rice, and on being challenged by a railway guard, the children flee together with the child, and leave him in a nearby river. The river transports the child to a slum, where he is picked up and looked after by the community in general, and is named Suraj. Years later, Suraj has grown up and is affectionately regarded as a kind-hearted man, who will help anyone in distress and trouble. One day Suraj defends a woman, and gravely wounds a man molesting her. This man is hospitalized, and subsequently dies. As a result Suraj is arrested by the police, and severely beaten. It is then Devraj, a much feared gangster comes to Suraj's rescue, and gets him out of custody. Suraj finds out that the man he killed worked for Devraj, and he becomes indebted to him for life, and both become close friends. Their friendship is tested when a new Collector, Arjun, comes to this community, and is bent upon arresting Devraj, and Suraj is instructed to kill him immediately. Suraj agrees to do so, not knowing that Arjun is none other than Kalyani's son. Surya, the abandoned child of an unwed mother, is brought up by a generous lady living in slums. He grows into an kind-hearted ardent fighter for the welfare of the downtrodden and underprivileged. These qualities lead him to cross swords with Devarajan, the local strongman. Impressed by the valour and nobility of Surya, Deva surrenders his ego and offers his hand of friendship. Surya reciprocates and declares that he would be Deva's friend till death. Deva makes Surya his commander, and says that Surya is his "Thalapathi". Both of them rule the town not only with their muscle but also with their sense of justice. But in the eyes of the Government, they are considered antisocial elements. Arjun, posted as the new District Collector, takes a pledge to snub Deva and Surya's activities and to capture them once and for all. In the ensuing struggle between the Collector and Deva/Surya, Surya learns that Arjun's mother, is his mother too. Surya promises his mother that he will not harm Arjun but refuses to leave Deva, whose friendship is more valuable to him than his relationship with his brother. Deva is stunned to learn that Collector and Surya are brothers and admires Surya for not parting with him in spite of discovering his identity. During the process of surrendering to the Collector, assuring him completely stopping their activities, Deva is shot. Surya, in a fit of rage, kills the person who was the cause for Deva's death and surrenders to the Police after performing the final rites of his close associate. The Collector goes to another place on a new posting accompanied by his wife. The mother opts to stay with her elder son, Surya.

