The 4 Horsemen of the Apocalypse

 In Argentina, the family man Julio Madariaga is the patriarch of his family and considers his farm the paradise on Earth. One of his daughters, Luisa Desnoyers, has married the Frenchman immigrant Marcelo Desnoyers and they have one son, the playboy Julio, and one daughter, the gorgeous student of Sorbonne Chi Chi. His other daughter, Elena von Hartrott, has married the German Karl von Hartrott, and they have three sons Franz. In 1938, Heinrich returns from Germany for a family reunion and when he tells that he has joined the SS, the displeased Julio Madariaga has a heart attack and dies. When France is occupied by the Germans, the family reunites in Paris and Franz is the Nazi administrator in France. The alienated Julio has a studio where he paints, and has a love affair with Marguerite Laurier, the wife of the owner of a newspaper Etienne Laurier that is fighting in Belgium. Meanwhile Chi Chi joins the French resistance and is arrested. Julio uses the influence of his uncle Franz to release her. However, Chi Chi has an argument with Julio for his neutral position. When Chi Chi is tortured to death by Gestapo, Julio joins the resistance, using his relationship with the Germans to get inside information. Karl from Germany and Marcelo from France emigrated to Argentina and became brothers-in-law. Whatever happens later they will always preserve a strong family feeling. Karl soon returned to Germany to serve in the army. Marcelo and his children Julio and Chichi became Argentinean citizens but later returned to Paris. Karl became a general with a son (Heinrich) in the SS. During WWII he got a high job within the occupation administration in France. Heinrich would come and go. Julio was a playboy. Chichi joined the resistance and was eventually tortured to death by Gestapo. Julio has a relation to a woman whose husband is a POW, and who will after release become a district leader within the resistance movement. Julio eventually feels that it is his duty to fight the Nazis. With a firm reputation as a superficial playboy, he can attend the nightclub favoured by German officers and gather much important information. Finally he and another partisan (posing as his chauffeur) accept a highly important suicidal task involving a courtesy call to Heinrich.

