The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms

 As a result of an arctic nuclear test, a carnivorous dinosaur thaws out and starts making its way down the east coast of North America. Professor Tom Nesbitt, only witness to the beast's existence, is not believed, even when he identifies it as a "rhedosaurus" to paleontologist Thurgood Elson. All doubts disappear, however, when Elson is swallowed whole during an oceanic bathysphere excursion to search for the creature. Soon thereafter the rhedosaurus emerges from the sea and lays waste to Manhattan Island until Nesbitt comes up with a plan to try to stop the seemingly indestructible beast. A nuclear test in the arctic brings back to life a giant dinosaur, called a rhedosaurus, which makes its way to the east coast of North America, destroying shipping vessels and a lighthouse. But all reports of a "sea serpent" are widely ridiculed and dismissed. Meanwhile, the nuclear physicist Tom Nesbitt, who saw the beast, tries to convince a paleontologist of its existence. In the midst of Nesbitt's romance with the latter's assistant, the beast makes its existence undeniable when it attacks New York. A confrontation between the military and the monster climaxes at Coney Island. A nuclear bomb unearths a prehistoric rhedosaurus, which stomps its way to New York and proceeds to smash up Wall Street, Coney Island and other familiar Big Apple tourist attractions. Nuclear physicist Paul Nesbitt sees what he believes to be a giant monster after an atomic bomb test in the arctic. The only other witness is killed when he is covered by ice. When Nesbitt returns to the States he tries to convince the world that he did see the monster. He even tries to convince paleontologist Thurgood Ellison. The only person who will believe him is Ellison's assistant, Lee Hunter. Ellison is finally convinced when Nesbitt and a survivor of a ship that was attacked by the monster both identify the monster as a rhedosaurus. Eventually the monster makes its way to New York where it kills several people, not only by devouring them or crushing them with its sheer weight but through a very virulent disease which is contained in its blood.

