The Bay of Love and Sorrows

 The Bay of Love and Sorrows is a haunting modern tragedy set on the rural shores of New Brunswick's Bay of Miramichi. In late summer 1973, Michael Skid, the son of a well-to-do judge, returns home and rents a dilapidated farm. He begins to spread the gospel of communal ideals, which he has absorbed during his travels in India. His new worldliness and ideas go over well with impoverished siblings Madonna and Silver Brassaurd and the hopelessly naïve Carrie. They go over less well with Tom Donnerel, a young farmer and Carrie's fiancE. Wounded by Tom's derision, Michael befriends ex-convict Everette Hatch, who, recognizing opportunity, exploits Michael's ideas to his advantage. Believing himself capable of understanding people from the other side of the track, Michael fails to recognize that the ex-con is manipulating him and so sets off a catastrophic chain of events in the community. It's 1973 in Newcastle, New Brunswick, a farming community just upriver of the shores of Miramichi Bay. Two absent young men have recently returned. The first is Everette Hatch, who has just completed a stint behind bars. The second is aspiring photographer Michael Skid, the son of a prominent local judge. Michael, who lives a carefree life due to his family's wealth, was traveling through India, from where he learned his new ideals of true community living - what yours is mine and what's mine is yours. He has just rented a rundown farmhouse where he hopes to put his thoughts into practice. Everette proposes to their group of friends that they put that ideal into practice by having a community fund available to whomever needs it. Everyone in that group would contribute to the fund. Michael agrees. Michael's girlfriend Madonna Brassaurd, who is barely able to make ends meet, is a little less convinced as she wants to save money specifically so that her brother Silver Brassaurd can go to technical school, but Everette somewhat convinces them - specifically "joiner" Silver - as the money can be used for Silver's education. Although he is not asked, responsible farmer Tom Donnerel, who cares for his mentally disabled brother Vincent Donnerel, and Tom's fiancEe Carrie Matchett would be even less convinced. Tom previously argued that the community's "you do me a favor, I'll do you a favor in return" really is a true sense of that communal living to which Michael aspires. An incident that occurs between two within the group threatens not only the fund but friendships and relationships. But the fund itself is already threatened when Everette uses the money for a drug deal which he promises to make them all rich. Everette exploits all those in the group for his own end purpose. But when Everette's grand scheme goes awry, the lives of all within the group are threatened, and not only because of the issue of the money.

