The Hours

 In 1951, Laura Brown, a pregnant housewife, is planning a party for her husband, but she can't stop reading the novel 'Mrs. Dalloway'. Clarissa Vaughn, a modern woman living in present times is throwing a party for her friend Richard, a famous author dying of AIDS. These two stories are simultaneously linked to the work and life of Virginia Woolf, who's writing the novel mentioned before. The film concerns three women each suffering from depression. Virginia Woolf is starting to write her book 'Mrs. Dalloway' in 1923 England. She is coming to the realization of her lesbianism and fighting her pure despair of life and headaches. Virginia receives a visit from her sister Vanessa and Vanessa's two sons and daughter. The daughter places a strong influence on Virginia's emotions through the death of a bird. Eventually, Virgnia must face the decision to run away to London, stay with her beloved husband, or move to London where the doctors forbid her to go. Laura Brown, is a mother fearing her ability to be a mother again. She is reading 'Mrs. Dalloway' in 1951 Los Angeles. Laura is trying to throw a wonderful birthday party for her husband. The very pregnant Laura thinks she won't be an adequate mother to her son and current baby on the way in a few months. Laura must make the decision to run away from it all or live miserably with her happy husband. Clarissa Vaughan is a career publisher living in present 2001 New York. Her nickname, given by her poet-friend, Richard, who is dying of AIDS, is Mrs. Dalloway. Clarissa is also throwing a party but for Richard who is receiving an award for his poetry. Like Virginia Woolf, Clarissa is also a lesbian but also wonders if she is in love with Richard with whom she once dated. At the end, the whole plot twists and comes together. The basic theme of the film is wondering if it is better to live your life for your own happiness or others. In 1923 England, ailing novelist Virginia Woolf is starting to write her novel, 'Mrs. Dalloway', under the care of doctors and family. In 1951 Los Angeles, Laura Brown is a pregnant housewife whom is planning for her husband's birthday, but is preoccupied with reading Woolf's novel. In 2001 New York, Clarrisa Vaughn is a lesbian publisher planning an award party for her friend, an author dying of AIDS. Taking place over one day, all three stories are interconnected with the novel mentioned before, as one is writing it, one is reading it, and one is living it. Recuperating from a nervous breakdown, Virginia Woolf begins work on her depression-themed novel "Mrs. Dalloway", which goes on to play a key role not only in her own life but in the lives of a 1950s housewife contemplating suicide and a new-millennium posh lesbian publisher caring for her dying friend.

