The House on August Street

 The untold story of my great-great aunt Beate Berger, and the "Beith Ahawah Kinderheim" she founded in 1922 in Berlin for Jewish children in need. It is the story of her courageous decision, during the early 1930s, to save "her" children from Nazi Germany, and the unique rescue operation that followed. She succeeded in bringing the children to the new "Ahawah" home she built in the Haifa Bay (then Palestine). This is a film about memory, about hope and about an amazing rescue operation run by one woman who had the historical vision and understanding of the reality in 1933 Berlinthat few others had. But, most of all, it is a film about the love that was the essence of "Beith Ahawah" in Auguststarﬂe 14-16, Berlin. Ayelet Bargur studied Art at TelAviv University and Film at Camera Obscura. Her graduation film, "A Good Place to Be" and her TV drama "As if Nothing Happened" were screened at festivals around the world and won a number of awards. Selected filmography of the Day" ('00), "Children of the Night" ('01), "Ras Pina" ('01), "So Near So Far" ('03). The House on August Street tells the remarkable, unknown story of Beate Berger, a German Jew who single-handedly and with great resolve and vision rescued over 100 children during the Holocaust, smuggling them from Berlin to Palestine in the 1930s. Berger, founder of the House of Love Children's Home Berlin's first home for poor Jewish children, was quick to recognize the Nazi threat and resolved to protect the 120 children under her care on "August Street." Raising the funds and making all the clandestine arrangements herself, Berger brought groups of children into Palestine from Germany from 1934 to 1939. The Beit Ahava orphanage in Haifa, founded by Berger to house her charges, remains open today. With The House on August Street, award-winning director Ayelet Bargur pays tribute to Beate Berger, her great-aunt. Bargur's extensive research into her aunt's life yielded the 2006 book Ahawah Heisst Liebe on which the film is based and which resurrected the extraordinary story of this courageous and visionary woman. Bargur's innovative documentary weaves together rare archival film materials and interviews with Berger's "children" with elegantly presented monologues based on Berger's letters brought to life by the acclaimed German actress Naomi Krauss. These poignant, illuminating scenes were filmed on location in the now-empty Berlin building that was once a house of love.

