The Texas Ranger

 Taylor has his men burning out the ranchers. When they kill Clayton, his daughter Helen and her men turn outlaw. The Rangers send Logan, and posing as a cowhand he joins her gang. But Nevada eventually remembers him as a Ranger and they set out to hang him. Remade as "Come On Danger,1932", "The Renegade Ranger, 1938", "Oklahoma Raiders, 1944" and despite the misnomer-sounding title,by Republic in 1946 as "Alias Billy the Kid" with Sunset Carson.B-western writers-directors-producers Bennett Cohen and Oliver Drake were involved in all four remakes without a nod of credit in the direction of the original writer Forrest Sheldon, except on the 1946 film where Sheldon was given story credit as Norman Sheldon, probably because Bennett Cohen, that film's associate producer, had forgotten what Sheldon's name was. No big deal, and for that matter,writers Drake and Cohen probably had more of their own "originals" swiped and re-sold than anybody.The original with Buck Jones and the remakes with Tom Keene, George O'Brien, Tex Ritter and Sunset Carson all rank close to the best made by any of them a cattle syndicate, takes possession of Laramie Valley, and his night-riders burn the houses of the homesteaders. The only resistance comes from Helen Clayton, who runs a big ranch called "Bell Starr" for her invalid father. When Taylor's gang burns "Bele Starr" and kill her father, Helen vows vengeance. Aided by five loyal ranch hands and the homesteaders, Helen takes refuge in a mountain stronghold and rustles Taylor's cattle.When he hears that Helen's men have killed Taylor-henchman Ed Lanning, Texas Ranger Captain John Edwards sends Ranger Jim Logan to investigate. Jim learns enough to become sympathetic to Helen's cause, and takes the place of a wounded driver and delivers a wagon of provisions to Helen's hideout, without disclosing the fact he is a Texas Ranger. Helen takes a liking to Jim and invites him to join her outfit, but Lynn Oldring and "Nevady" regard Jim with suspicion for they recall seeing him as a Ranger. Jim admits his identity and they offer to let him go free if he promises not to disclose their hideout to the Rangers, but he refuses, saying his first duty is to the Rangers. But Jim escapes on his horse Silver and takes Helen with him, and they are captured by Taylor's men and taken to Taylor's ranch. Jim claims to have captured Helen for Taylor's purposes, and Jim is given the run of the house while Helen is imprisoned. Jim overhears Taylor tell Sam Lanning that he intends to have Helen killed, and Lanning protests. When Lanning leaves Taylor instructs a henchmen to "give Sam the same medicine he gave to his brother Ed." Jim knows this clears Helen and her men of the murder and rustling charges, and that Taylor is the cause of all of the valley's problems.

