The Full Value

 Jack Raymond loved the pretty stenographer in the office and his attentions were not unpleasing to the lady. But the manager also admires her and determines to show her attentions. Flattered, the thoughtless girl accepted his attentions and allowed him to escort her home. They are observed by Jack. He then hurries to the home of the girl and demands that she choose between him and his employer. She answers him in kind and then leaves him abruptly. When he reports for duty the next morning he is discharged. In the weeks that follow he finds work impossible to secure and is soon reduced to poverty. In the meantime the employer has made more and more advances to the girl, until one morning in the office believing her acquiescent, he attempts to insult her. Freeing herself from his arms the outraged girl takes her hat and leaves his employ. The manager determines to humble the girl. Her mother's property is listed with the firm and he determines to defraud her out of it. He tells his new stenographer to call the young man employed to take Jack's old position, and outlines his plans to him. The new employee is something of a grafter himself and he sees a way to make some money for himself out of the deal. He hurries from the office and seeking an equally unscrupulous crony, tells him that the widow's property can be bought for so much money. They can buy it and then force the real estate firm to pay them a decent profit. It happened that Jack was seated on the bench when the proposition was broached and gathered that no matter who made the profit, the real estate firm of his agent, the widow was sure to lose. He hurries to her with his information and asks her to allow him to engineer the deal. When the agent comes to her with his proposition she refers him to Jack, stating that he had already secured an option on the property. Seeing that his chance for profit has fallen through, the agent tells Jack to do business direct with the firm. Jack calls at the real estate office and knowing that the property is necessary to the firm to further other plans, forced his old employer to pay full value for the property. The disgruntled manager makes out a check and Jack hurries back to the widow with the good news. And the old sweetheart learns the full value of the man that loves her and differenced are settled.

