The Dancing Forest

 The Dancing Forest is a powerfully optimistic vision of Africa in the 21st Century and a touching story to shatter many destructive myths about the Dark Continent. Long abandoned as a land without hope, Africa has battled to overcome the negative stereotypes that have condemned it to the periphery of civilization. The damning lie is of a people trapped in their past; unable to break the cycle of corruption and apathy - a people who will always be dependent on foreign help as they are incapable of helping themselves. The Dancing Forest is Africa's strident retaliation. Through the shining example of a small village in Togo, we find a community that refuses to wait for outside aid to make its way out of poverty and ruin. With tools in hand, its proud men and women stoop to build their own destiny and a model of self-reliance. Mixing traditional agricultural knowledge with modern techniques they provide a timely lesson to the West on how we ought to harmonize with nature and build a sustainable relationship with the land based on preservation and respect. Amid the hectic and merciless stampede of capitalism, The Dancing Forest offers a quiet sanctuary in which to reflect on some of the many urgent questions facing mankind divide between rich and poor? What hope is there for the 218 million sub-Saharan Africans who live in abject poverty? What are the ways to combat sky-rocketing food prices? How are we to define our economic relationship with the environment? And what is the role of women in the development of Africa and its communities? In over 60 years the World Bank, IMF, WTO have been woefully short on solutions to these concerns and may indeed be at the very heart of the problem. This is the story they do not want to be told. Opening our eyes and minds to a new way of development, The Dancing Forest takes us on a trip to a world where time, nature and everyday gestures still bear meaning. A world where forests can dance. Through the noble gaze and profound testimony of the people of Baga, we are educated and inspired and shown that beyond pain and survival is a lasting dignity, freedom and hope.

