The Ghosts of Ybor

 This documentary will explain the rise and fall of Charlie Wall and through the use of interviews with some of the most knowledgeable people of this time period*, vintage footage, famous painting (by Ferdie Pacheco) and photographs from the 20's to the 50's, and numerous reenactments of some of the most explicit and important parts of Wall's life. It may have been the South, but in the early 1900s Tampa, Fl, specifically its Latin community known as Ybor City, was more reminiscent of the Wild West. Gambling parlors and whore houses were located on almost every corner in Ybor City, shootouts between police and gangsters were a regular occurrence, election ballot boxes were stuffed, police and politicians were on the take, and very few residents found any of this to be odd. The man behind all this insanity was, Charlie Wall, Tampa's first crime lord and perhaps the earliest crime lord to control most of Florida. This documentary tells the tale of one the nation's most unknown gangsters. It may have been the South, but in the early 1900s Tampa, Fl, specifically its Latin community known as Ybor City, was more reminiscent of the Wild West. Gambling parlors and whore houses were located on almost every corner of Ybor City, shootouts between police and gangsters were a regular occurrence, election ballot boxes were stuffed, police and politicians were on the take, and very few residents found any of this to be odd. The man behind all this insanity was a non-Italian, Charlie Wall, Tampa's first crime lord and perhaps the earliest crime lord to control most of Florida. Shortly after the Sicilian mafia took control of Tampa in the 1950s, though, after over three decades of power, Charlie Wall was founded brutally murdered in his home. His head was crushed with a bat and his neck was sliced from ear to ear with a knife. The murder remains unsolved to this day. *Interviews are with Ellis Clifton (Tampa Detective during Wall's murder and Trafficante's arrests), Bob Turner (Tampa Times Reporter during Wall's murder), Ace Atkins (Author of 'White Shadow), Ferdie Pacheco (Artist and Story Teller about Ybor History), Scott M. Deitche (Author of Cigar City Mafia), Charlie Wall's Nephew, Frank Regano Jr. (Son of Frank Regano- Santo's Lawyer), Mrs. 'Scarface' Rivera, Wall's Cousin, and more.

