The Love Line

 THE LOVE LINE is a love story for the 21st century, a random and anonymous telephone connection giving way to the longing and desire lying in everyone's heart. It's gritty and sensual, sad and beautiful, lyrical and funny. Really funny. CAMILLA ST. LUCIA is a phone sex operator. Her skeevy boss loves her because she can do accents Japanese one, a teenager and a French hooker, all for the price of one single black mother desperately trying to stay a step ahead of her life. She has an abusive boyfriend, RUFUS, her former pimp, she has a little boy, SATCHMO, who never talks, but still she sings. That's her dream, to smash past the impossible roadblocks and sing her way to freedom. DALTON FARRELL is a button-down corporate white guy, stuck in the monotony of a job he doesn't like and deep in mourning for his dead wife. It's slowly killing him that he can't find his mojo. Until the night despair and a few too many drinks drive him to call a number he sees advertised in the back of the Phoenix be that, a sudden, blind explosion and hang up fast, except Dalton hears in Camilla's voice a soulmate, someone as troubled as he and hungry for something more. And Camilla, when she gets over her understandable skepticism, learns to listen to Dalton, too, and slowly comes around to trusting that the faceless voice on the other end of the phone is actually, miraculously, speaking to her. They don't meet until halfway through the movie and when they do it's a disaster, their hard-earned cynicism and guardedness sending them running in opposite directions. But Camilla has an old blind, black man in her life, ROSCOE, who runs the rundown bar she sometimes sweeps for him in exchange for singing lessons, and it's his music that keeps her grounded and gives her the shy courage not to give up. All Dalton has, other than the lunatics he works with, is his wife's cat, who's never quite forgiven him for her death, but at least it's someone to talk to. As in every great love story, the lovers have a gift for each other. Camilla gives Dalton a dose of her indomitable spirit and he teaches her to see what he sees takes a lot for Dalton and Camilla to defy the odds and turn loneliness into love, a lot of doubt, a lot of experts telling them why they shouldn't, the cold reality of logic and the hot threat of violence and heartbreak, but ultimately they find the strength to grab onto the love line and hold on tight.

