The Westsiders

 From surfing innovations to gritty localism, follow the rise and fall of The Westsiders surf gang through the eyes of three best friends from the original 'Surf City' Virostko, Shawn 'Barney' Barron, and Jason 'Ratboy' Collins bonded by common tragedy and their love of surfing. They live through shattered homes, drug addiction, other psychological issues and hard-core localism to achieve their dream of becoming professional surfers before the age of 24. To surf the notorious Steamer Lane, they had to join 'The Westsiders' Surf Gang and go face to face with Vince Collier, aka 'The Godfather of The Westside'. Vince, a massive brute force, ran Steamer Lane with his own version of street justice. This film explores The Westsiders as the latest chapter in the fascinating surfer history of Santa Cruz, California. The Westsiders is the awe-inspiring, eye-popping tale of a special piece of Santa Cruz history portrayed through the experiences of our own hometown's surfers. Best friends Darryl "Flea" Virostko, Shawn "Barney" Barron, and Jason "Ratboy" Collins bonded in the icy cold waters of Santa Cruz as kids in the 1980s. Joined by their common tragedies and love of surfing, they supported each other through shattered homes, drug addiction, psychological challenges and hardcore localism. In order to earn their stripes as surfers, they were forced to join The Westsiders, a local surf gang, and go face-to-face with Vince Collier, aka "The Godfather.". Inspired by seeing their heroes in person at a local surf competition one winter, the trio became convinced that professional stardom was, in fact, a possibility. After 1994's Cold Water Classic, where Ratboy's startling 360-degree aerial move blew everyone's mind, a signal was sent that a new breed of surfers was brewing in Santa Cruz. Magazine covers, sponsors, tours and fame soon followed. They'd done it. They'd reached the peak of professional surfing. However, the pressure of success took its toll and each struggled to cope with their personal demons. Featuring a combination of stunning archival surf footage, news clips, interviews with family, friends and loved ones, and video Joshua shot himself of the guys as a teenager, The Westsiders is the latest chapter in the bizarre, yet innovative, history of Santa Cruz. Narated by Rosanna Arquette. The Westsiders is the story of four surfers from the icy cold waters of Santa Cruz California. They set out to be the best but found out that life at the tope can be more perilus than the shark infested waters or the forty foot peeks they surfed.

