The End of the Feud

 Old man Jackson was born in Kentucky. So was his father and his only son, Bruce. Hence it was not surprising that Bruce's grandfather began a feud with George Perriwell, which his son had sworn to carry forward. But Perriwell moved to a remote part of Kentucky and Jackson was never able to execute his promise. When Jackson lay on his death-bed the memory of his promise to his father recurred to him. He called Bruce, told him of the feud, gave him the family enemy's name and swore his son to avenge the parental honor. This Bruce promised to do. When Jackson had been buried, Bruce packed his belongings and started westward. Carefully he treasured the badly scrawled name, "George Perriwell" in his pocket. In the desert Bruce's horse died. The lad staggered bravely forward until, water gone and with dry parched throat, his exhausted frame gave way. Two hours later a prairie schooner appeared. Its proprietor found him near death and, with the aid of his daughter, Margaret, nursed him back to life. In the days that followed the pair grew to love each other deeply, and one day asked the father's consent. The emigrant slapped Bruce heartily on the back and bade him welcome to the family. Then came a day, when the caravan stopping for lunch, Bruce was left alone about the wagon. The wind blew a flap of the canvas cover, exposing a name. Suddenly it occurred to him that he had never heard his benefactor's last name. In Western fashion, it had been "George" and "Bruce" with them. He had called her "Margaret" because her father did. The truth flashed over him dashing his new found happiness to death, for there on the inside canvas cover was the name "George Perriwell." Perriwell appeared. He beckoned him to a distant grove of trees, told him his name, and, with tears running down his cheeks, fired straight at Perriwell. The gun missed fire. Perriwell, meantime, took careful aim at his antagonist. Then, suddenly Margaret hurled herself into her father's arms. Perriwell hesitated and, seeing the outstretched hand of Bruce, clasped it with his own, thus ending a feud that threatened to wreck three lives.

