The Simpsons Movie

 Homer adopts a pig who's run away from Krusty Burger after Krusty tried to have him slaughtered, naming the pig "Spider Pig." At the same time, the lake is protected after the audience sink the barge Green Day are on with garbage after they mention the environment. Meanwhile, Spider Pig's waste has filled up a silo in just 2 days, apparently with Homer's help. Homer can't get to the dump quickly so dumps the silo in the lake, polluting it. Russ Cargill, the villainous boss of the EPA, gives Arnold Schwarzenegger 5 options, forcing him to choose 4 (which is, unfortunately, to destroy Springfield) and putting a dome over Springfield to prevent evacuation. Homer, however, has escaped, along with his family. Can he stop the evil Cargill from annihilating his home town, and his family, who have been forced to return to Springfield? The city of Springfield orders a clean up of the polluted Lake Springfield and bans waste dumps there. However, someone forgot to tell Homer Simpson that, and when he dumps a silo of "Pig Crap" in it, he inadvertently dooms Springfield, his family, and himself. Thanks to Lisa Simpson, Lake Springfield is cleaned up from the pollution that once fouled it. But when Homer, who's adopted a pig (Spider-pig) and dumps a silo full of the pig's crap in the lake, the EPA places a large dome over Springfield, and the Simpsons family manage to escape through a sinkhole. The family flees to a better life in Alaska, but when the head of the EPA, Russ Cargill, orders the towns destruction, it's up to Homer to save Springfield! In Springfield, Lisa convinces the locals to clean up the polluted Lake Springfield after the sinking of the stage of the Green Day in a concert of rock and roll. Meanwhile, Homer saves a pig from being killed in Krusty Burger and adopts it, calling the animal Spider Pig. After two days, Spider Pig fills up a silo with its excrement and Homer dumps the silo in the lake, polluting it. The angry population forces the Simpsons to move to Alaska. Meanwhile the stupid president Arnold Schwarzenegger is induced by his advisor from EPA to put a dome over Springfield to hold the population and destroy the city. When Marge sees the new in the television, she tells Homer that they must return to Springfield to save their town and friends, but Homer is not convinced if people of Springfield deserve their support. When Lisa Simpson tells the town of Springfield about their pollution problem, the town reacts and prohibits all pollution into the water. This doesn't stop Homer, who dumps a pig-waste silo into the water. Russ Cargill decides that Springfield is too dangerous and places a dome over the town, stopping anything from getting in or out. When the town people find out the true culprit behind the problem, they set out off straight for the Simpson's home. Escaping from the dome, the Simpsons decide to start a new life in Alaska, whilst the remainder of the town disappears.

