The Jackal

 Russian mobster Terek Murad has declared open season on the Russian militia and the FBI over the shooting of his brother in a Moscow nightclub. He hires the Jackal, a nasty assassin whom nobody has even seen, to kill the Director of the FBI. With nowhere else to turn (except a woman who used to work with the Basque separatists, who is now in the USA but whose exact whereabouts in unknown to all save Mulqueen), FBI Deputy Director Carter Preston (who was present at the Moscow shooting) and Major Valentina Koslova of the Russian milita (who pulled the trigger in that shooting) enlist the reluctant services of Declan Mulqueen, an imprisoned IRA sniper, to track the Jackal down, for Declan is the only other person who can positively identify the Jackal. The United States is trying to help the New Russia in the war against organized crime in that country. Presently, they are after Terek Murad, a deadly crime boss. When they raid one of his establishments, Murad's brother is killed. Murad seeks revenge against the ones who killed his brother, FBI agent Carter Preston and Russian Major Valentina Koslova, but most of all, he wants to send a message to the Americans about interfering in matters that don't concern them, so he hires an international assassin to kill the head of the FBI. When the assassin advises Murad to go into hiding until the job is done, he does. Desperate to know what Murad is doing, Preston allows the Russians to abduct Murad's errand boy and torture him to find out, and he utters the word "Jackal" which Preston recognizes as the name of an international assassin. They have to find him but unfortunatly, there is noone who knows who he is except for one person, whom they have to find and the only person who knows where that person is, is Declan Mulqueen, an IRA man, who is in prison, they offer to reduce his sentence is he helps them but refuses because all he wants is to be freed, so they decide to leave but he tells them that he knows who the Jackal is. So they release him and together they try to find the Jackal before he makes his move which won't be easy because he is very wily.

