The Girl Next Door

 18-year-old Matthew Kidman is a straight 'A' over-achiever who feels that he has never really lived life till the fall. This is, until he meets 'the girl next door'. Danielle moves in next door, and Matthew thinks he's found the girl of his dreams. All is going well, until Matthew's sex-mad friend Eli reveals that Danielle is actually a ex-porn star. Matthew doesn't know how to take the news or how to treat Danielle, and things go from bad to worse when Danielle's former producer Kelly appears to take her back. A straight-arrow high-school senior falls in love with the perfect 'girl-next-door', only to discover she is a former porn star. He comes to realize that if he wants this very special woman, he better be willing to risk it all and experience a journey for which he never could have prepared. An ambitious high school senior, Matthew, with dreams of a career in politics is overjoyed to discover that his new neighbor, 19-year-old Danielle, is absolutely beautiful, and they quickly fall head over heels in love. Their relationship is put to the test, however, when he discovers that she used to be a porn star... The Girl Next Door is a story of an intelligent and very ambitious High School Senior who has never experienced any type of personal exciting or thrilling event. His life, up to this point, has been preparing for his future of attending Georgetown University and eventually following his dream of becoming president. Although he is happy for being accepted to the school of his dreams, he feels unfulfilled and longs to do or achieve something outrageous as he sees his fellow students doing. This all changes when the girl of his dreams moves in next door. At first sight of her, he is astounded by her beauty and style. They then meet under humorous circumstances when he is seen by her, watching her through his bedroom window. She possesses the ability to make him take risks and do the things that he never believed that he could allow himself to do. Slowly they begin to "see" each other and fall in love. This again changes when he discovers that her former profession, which she avoids mentioning, lies in the adult film industry. More conflicts arise when she is persuaded, by her prior producer, to return to "the business."

