The Dead Pool

 For Inspector 'Dirty' Harry Callahan, fame and celebrity status is not his lifestyle, especially when it interferes with his job. But right after putting one of San Francisco's crime bosses in prison, Callahan ends in the status quo as well as being written in a list for a game called, 'The Dead Pool', where his life is now in the line along with other famous celebrities that are mysteriously dying. Callahan is up against the media attention, an enraged hit men, and a new killer, who's attempting to throw off the dead pool game anyway possible. Callahan has to find the connection between the killings and then perpetrator, before the game can be declared over. Harry Callahan - or Dirty Harry as he is known from the previous four movies in this series - is investigating a strange betting game. A list of local celebrities has been handed out, and bets are being taken on who will be the first to die. Things start to get interesting when the name 'Harry Callahan' appears on the list. After his court testimony puts a key mafia figure into San Quentin, Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan finds unwanted fame. Now it seems that every hired killer in town is after him. To make it worse, Homicide wants him to go public British horror film director Peter Swan, who is in town to film a video for drug-addicted rock star Johnny Squares, plays a game with his crew known as "The Dead Pool", where they each choose a set of 10 celebrities who they think will die before the game ends. The winner of the game is the one with most number of dead celebrities on their list. And the problems start when the people on Peter's list start to die under mysterious circumstances. Following the death of Johnny Squares, DirtyHarry learns of The Dead Pool. And Dirty Harry discovers that his own name is on the list. All fingers seem to point to Peter, mainly since the celebrities that are dying are the same as those on his list. Dirty Harry also has to contend with TV reporter Samantha Walker, who'd just love to do a big story on him, and her name is also on the list. DirtyHarry races to unmask the killer before Dirty Harry himself winds up on the losing end of this game. Film director Peter Swan plays a game with his crew know as "The Dead Pool", wherein they each choose a set of 10 celebrities who they think will die before the game ends. The winner is the one with most number of dead celebrities. The problems start when the people on Swan's list start to die in mysterious circumstances. Harry is assigned to the case and discovers he is one of the names on Swan's list! A rock singer, Johnny Squares, who is also a drug addict is found dead of an overdose but there are signs that it was not accidental, so Harry is assigned to investigate. Initially Harry locks horns with Peter Swan, the man who directs the singer's videos. He also crosses paths with a television reporter, Samantha Walker and after being threatened with a law suit, the two of them form a rapport. Harry then discovers that Swan and several other people are playing a game called the dead pool, wherein they make a list of individuals, who are either in bad health or high risk professions, and turns out that Squares was on Swan's list and so are some other people who were murdered, and Harry's also on the list. And someone is following him. After Harry's arrest of a gambling kingpin results in a conviction for murder, a group of thugs shoot up Harry's car and try to kill him. Harry overpowers them and is paired with a new partner, Insp. Al Quan. Within days of this assignment Harry and Al find themselves working on a mysterious death of a rock star, who was on location filming a movie directed by Peter Swan. After one of Swan's crew is killed in a Chinatown robbery that is foiled by Al & Harry, Al discovers a list of celebrities on the dead man that includes the dead rock star and one Inspector Harry Callahan. They soon discover that this is part of a strange game called the Dead Pool, and it isn't long before other people on the list turn up dead...and someone starts making attempts on Harry's life...

