The Titania Prequel

 As the result of a misunderstanding, the fairy queen, Titania, is banished from the forest surrounding her estate, closed off from her beloved realm. However, when she defies this edict and enters the forest, she finds herself suddenly betrayed by one of her own and brutally attacked. After her wings are torn from her body, the queen sets out on a journey of rediscovery to become whole again. As the result of a misunderstanding, the faery queen, Titania, is banished from the forest surrounding her estate, closed off from her beloved realm. However, when she defies this edict and enters the forest, she finds herself suddenly betrayed by one of her own and brutally attacked. After her wings are torn from her body, the queen sets out on a journey of rediscovery to become whole again... THE MEDISAGA is a film trilogy comprised of tale of The Armless Maiden, through the faery queen Titania, and other characters from Shakespeare's Midsummer Nights Dream, as well as Greek mythology. After Titania's wings are violently torn from her body she must embark on a journey of healing to become whole again. TITANIA Not long after the birth of her child, Titania entered a forbidden corner of a dark forest, and was viciously attacked by a flock of harpies. During the brutal assault her wings were violently torn from her body - her distinctiveness as a faery queen robbed. From that moment, Titania was confined to the grounds of her estate by an edict of the court. She became trapped inside her delusions, living in fear of being hunted down and slain by the harpies that attacked her the first time. When her infant son disappears (believed to be taken by his father, Oberon) she has no choice but to enter the dark forest again, and face her greatest fear to save her child. As the result of a misunderstanding, the faery queen, Titania, is banished from the forest surrounding her estate, closed off from her beloved realm. However, when she defies this edict and enters the forest, she finds herself suddenly betrayed by one of her own and brutally attacked. After her wings are torn from her body, the queen sets out on a journey of rediscovery to become whole again...

