The Gay Buckaroo

 Successful horse rancher Clint Hale (Hoot Gibson) is in love with Mildred Field (Merna Kennedy), daughter of gold miner "Sporty Bill" Field (Lafe McKee) who has struck it rich and bought a large cattle ranch. He only plays at being a rancher and leaves the running of the spread in the hands of an unfit foreman and a lazy crew of cowhands. Mildred also has her father's taste for extravagant living and is amused by Clint's courtship but she really admires Dave Dumont (Roy D'Arcy in his best - and only - over-the-top silent films style) who runs the saloon and gambling hall. Clint, humiliated by Dumont, when he gives Mildred a horse, is advised by his wise Chinese man-of-all-work, Hi-Low Jack (Edward Peil), that to win a girl like Mildred, he has to become a "gay buckaroo." Clint goes to Dumont's place to collect some owed-money, intending to spend it on fine and flashy clothes and, after whipping a Dumont henchie and clashing with Dumont, collects the money and discovers he has lost it when he arrives home. That night, Dumont has his men steal Clint's horses and they have them on the trail to Santa Fe when Clint is tipped off by Faro Parker (Charles King) who has had a falling-out with Dumont. Clint overtakes them, recovers his lost money from Dumont and takes extra money for the horses, and rides onto Santa Fe and buys a "gay buckaroo" suit of clothes. Later, gambling with Field and Dumont, he wins the field ranch and sets out to take it over, but not before giving Faro Parker his "gay buckaroo" clothes. He discharges the Field help, puts Mildred in the kitchen to learn how to cook from Hi-Low and has the old man chopping wood. Mistaking Faro as Clint, sporting his new wardrobe, Dumont kills him and is able to pin the blame on Clint, but Clint escapes. That night, he goes to Dumont's place and hides the gambler's bankroll where he can't find it. A week later, with no money to back his game, Dumont is in trouble and being pressed by creditors. The sheriff shows him a hand bill offering $1,000 reward for Faro Parker, dead or alive and no questions asked. Dumont, more than a little chagrined to learn that Clint is not only cleared of a murder charge, but will also collect the thousand bucks rightfully belonging to him. When Dave lifts Clint's wallet and then steals his horses, Clint gets the money back and makes Dave pay for the horses. When Dave tries to cheat Clint in his crooked card game, Clint wins. Later Dave shoots Clint only to find it is another man in Clint's clothes. Dave then sends the Sheriff after Clint for the murder, but Clint has a plan to trap Dave.

