The Haters

 The cowboys on ranch "L" had sworn to debar the feminine sex from their thoughts forevermore. Jim Bradley, foreman, was particularly loud in his complaint against the fair sex; so when he fell sick with a fever, Charley Williams undertook to doctor him with whiskey. That failed, however, and when the official ranch doctor called, that personage was highly armed and at once prescribed quiet and a trained nurse. He sent one--a dainty, pretty little miss in the usual white cap and gown. But she only came after her aunt, also a nurse, [who] positively refused to have anything to do with men. The rangers notice a change in Bradley's condition for the better. One day they were astounded, on peering through a window, to find the nurse's face buried on his shoulder. They swore to be revenged on him. Meantime, Charley Williams found time to hang about the house and invite the nurse for strolls. That didn't have a beneficial effect on the injured feelings of the cow punchers, either. Finally the aunt became suspicious. She donned her bonnet and sallied forth to the range in quest of information as to her niece's long absence. It happened that the couple were out for a walk, as couples often are; so this determined man-hater went in uninvited and made herself at home. Now old Ben Griscom was one of the band of sworn woman-haters. He had found, however, that the longer he knew this pretty nurse, so in proportion changed his sentiments toward the weaker sex. In fact these sentiments changed so rapidly that he actually went to town and bought all manner of stuff. This he modestly pushed under the door. It happened at that time that the old nurse was firmly seated in an arm chair awaiting the arrival of the missing couple. She observed the offerings pushed beneath the door and finally decided to investigate. This she did by opening the door suddenly, just in time to fall fairly into old Griscom's arms. There was grand rejoicing, for instantly they remembered an old love affair and a promise of long standing.

