The Old Wyoming Trail

 When Bob Patterson arrives to buy cattle he gets caught up in Kenney's plan to take over Halliday's ranch. Kenney's gang led by Slade are keeping all cattle buyers away so Halliday will be unable to pay off his note. When Slade robs Halliday, Bob has a plan that will use the stolen bills to trap Kenney. One of the five Charles Starrett westerns in which Columbia second-billed band singer Donald Grayson (who they billed as "The Singing Sensation") behind Starrett in an effort to create their own singing cowboy star. Evidently thinking one western band was the same as any other, Columbia had Grayson as the lead singer in front of The Sons of the Pioneers,and had Bob Nolan strumming a bass in the background while singing not a note, and consequently lost the unique sound that made hits out of "Tumbling Tumbleweeds", "Cool Water", "Happy Rovin' Cowboy" and their other songs of the era. This is the best of that failed exercise musically as Ray Whitley was also along on a one-picture deal, thereby giving the band an extra guitar player and singer who, unlike Grayson, fit in like a tight glove because he knew what he was doing. The only "true" Sons of the Pioneers sound heard in the five Grayson pictures comes behind the opening credits when the original and real members (Bob Nolan, Len Slye (Roy Rogers), Tim Spencer, Hugh and Karl Farr) are performing "Tumbling Tumbleweeds." without, thankfully, the unneeded help of Grayson. Plot has rancher Bob Patterson (Charles Starrett), his foreman Sandy Grayson (Donald Grayson) and his cowhands Bob Nolan, Tim Spencer, Len Slye (the film name of Roy Rogers did not exist when this film was made), Hugh Farr and Karl Farr meeting and riding along with Halliday foreman Jim (Ray Whitley) on the way to buy cattle from rancher Jeff Halliday (Edward LeSaint), and all hands, including Starrett for one of the few times in his career, combining to sing "Riding Home." They are soon involved in a plot by businessman Lafe Kinney (Guy Usher) to force Halliday to sell his land cheaply, aided and abetted by his chief henchman Ed Slade (Dick Curtis). Slade, already greatly miffed because Patterson killed his outlaw brother in a foiled stagecoach holdup, robs Halliday of the $5,000 paid him by Patterson for cattle, but Halliday's daughter, Elsie (Barbara Weeks) informs Patterson and Sandy, who set out to trap the culprits through the use of marked bills. This is no easy task as the Kinney/Slade outfit employs no less than 25 henchmen which, while not a record for a B-western, did provide work for more than the usual in a series oater.They had so many that regular villains such as Tom London, Edmund Cobb, Jack Evans and other henchie regulars had other roles.

