The Fighting Sheriff

 A dying Jack makes Bob and Flash promise not to tell his sister that he was an outlaw. When Bob confronts Flash with his muffler found at the stage holdup, Flash tells Mary that Bob killed her brother. Believing he can now marry Mary, he plans one more robbery. But the jealous Tiana overhears and runs for the Sheriff. Bob Terry, sheriff of Red River, is baffled at his inability to capture the bandits who hold up and rob the stagecoaches.He suspects that "Flash" Halloway, proprietor of the "Hell's Delight" saloon (and cafE) is the mastermind behind the gang. Bob pursues one of the bandits and is forced to shoot him. The mortally wounded outlaw is Jack Cameron, alias Jack Smith and, before he dies, he asks Bob to look after his kid sister Mary, who is due to arrive in Red River. Both Bob and Halloway (as it is spelled on the original cast role that is not part of the video tapes on this film) fall in love with Mary but she prefers and encourages Bob, which does little to improve the already-mean attitude of Halloway. Bob's efforts to cath the gang leader are given an unexpected boost by Tiana, which some sources have incorrectly changed to Nina), Halloway's Spanish mistress, who is jealous over Halloway's attention to Mary. Tiana tells Bob that henchman Sam Scott has just turned over the loot from the latest stage robbery to Halloway, and she has just seen him lock it up in his safe.Close to the scene of the next robbery, Jim also finds a kerchief, which he recognizes as one Mary had given to Halloway.Confronted by Bob, Halloway denies his guilt and takes his revenge on Bob by telling Mary that Bob was the man who killed her brother, and is now trying to frame him. She rejects Bob and turns to Halloway who quickly announces his plans to marry Mary. But Halloway has one more job to pull first; learning that the bullion for the miner's payroll is due to arrive by pack mule he decides to lead the raid on it himself. But Halloway has forgotten about the firey Tiana.

