The Curse of Frankenstein

 In prison and awaiting execution, Dr. Victor Frankenstein recounts to a priest what led him to his current circumstance. He inherited his family's wealth after the death of his mother when he was still only a young man. He hired Paul Krempe as his tutor and he immediately developed an interest in medical science. After several years, he and Krempe became equals and he developed an interest in the origins and nature of life. After successfully re-animating a dead dog, Victor sets about constructing a man using body parts he acquires for the purpose including the hands of a pianist and the brain of a renowned scholar. As Frankenstein's excesses continue to grow, Krempe is not only repulsed by what his friend has done but is concerned for the safety of the beautiful Elizabeth, Victor's cousin and fiancEe who has come to live with them. His experiments lead to tragedy and his eventual demise. Baron Victor Frankenstein, in prison for murder and trying to evade the guillotine, tells a priest how he and his mentor, Paul Krempe, had performed many scientific experiments, eventually leading to the resurrection of a dead body. The baron's obsession and the monster's homicidal nature cause the deaths of several of those around them. Finally the Baron is confronted by an enraged monster about to throw Victor's fiancEe Elizabeth, from the castle parapet. After all his family has died, young and rich Baron Victor Frankenstein finds himself a teacher, Paul Krempe. Over the years, their relationship switches from teacher-pupil to research colleagues. Their specific interest lies in life itself. After resurrecting a dead puppy, Paul Krempe sees the monstrosity of their experiments and decides to quit working on those projects. But as Elizabeth, Victor's Cousin arrives to marry him, Paul stays in the house to protect her. Victor gets more and more obsessed with his work and starts building a man who is supposed to be a superior being. He even kills to get a proper brain. After a little accident the brain gets damaged, and when the creature is resurrected, it does not behave in a superior manner. In the course of events, Victor has chambermaid Justine killed by his creature. This is the sign for Paul Krempe to stop Victor's madness. He has to turn against his old student and friend.

