The Wives He Forgot

 Into the small law offices of unlucky-in-love Charlotte St. John stumbles a handsome stranger, bloodied and battered, suffering amnesia. The good Samaritan, she cares for him, nurses him to health ... and falls hard for this mysterious angel. He reciprocates -- and good love finally finds Charlotte. But not for long, for their brief love affair hits the rocks when his identity is uncovered. Together they learn to their heartbreaking disappointment that he's already married ... twice. That's right, he's an amnesiac who forgot his was a bigamist. Though initially crushed that her perfect hero is just another perfect schmuck, Charlotte soon agrees to defend him against the bigamy charges, arguing that his injury has wiped out his former personality. In mounting her defense, she investigates his past ... and discovers that his vengeful wives may have uncovered his dirty bigamist secret months before -- and secretly plotted his violent downfall! When a man, beaten and bloody, stumbles into the law office of Charlotte St. John, she discovers that he has contracted amnesia. She takes him in as a guest, hoping that his memory will recover as his wounds heal. As time moves on, Charlotte finds herself more and more attracted to this kind, handsome stranger, who she names Gabriel. When it turns out that he sustained his injuries after saving a woman's life, turning him into a reluctant local hero, she can't help but fall in love. But everything changes for Charlotte when Gabriel's wife arrives, claiming that his real name is Jay. A disappointed Charlotte keeps in touch with Jay, though he still doesn't remember a thing, and they can't help but confess that they still have feelings for one another. But when ANOTHER woman comes forward, claiming to be Jay's wife as well, he's put on trial for bigamy, and the community turns against him. Believing in the man she fell in love with, Charlotte makes the decision to defend Jay in court, to put her personal feelings aside, go against public opinion, and do what she feels is right. But all is not as it seems, and Charlotte may find that, when it comes to her mystery man, doing the right thing isn't always as easy as expected.

