The Black Magic

 The American friends David, Craig and Andrew travel on vacation in Bangkok, Thailand, to celebrate the last bachelor days of Andrew that is going to marry his fiancEe Heather. They hire the gorgeous Thai photographer Sita to sightsee Bangkok with them. A couple of days later, Andrew tells them that they must return to Los Angeles and while going to the airport, they see Sita being dragged out from a river. Once in Los Angeles, the infection on the face of the yuppie David grows and while in a meeting, he vomits on the table and the other executives. Meanwhile Craig is stabbed by a stranger in an alley near his home and is interned in the hospital with a serious infection. When Andrew and Heather go to a Thai restaurant to have dinner, an old lady gives an amulet to David for the protection of Heather. When Heather is possessed by a fiend, David calls the shaman and the woman tells him that the trio of friends has been cursed by witchcraft and only a bridge ceremony may exorcise the evil spirit. But Andrew must tell first the truth about the tragic trip to Thailand. Three young Americans, David, Andrew and Craig has just finished their trip in Thailand and they are about to leave the location. With the astonishing image of a young Thai woman being dragged out from a Bangkok canal still haunting their mind, they did not stop and they still went ahead with their returning to Los Angeles. In Los Angeles, the three men have their own business of their own activities. Andrew got to meet his fiancee Heather, while David got to continue with his high-powered job and so did Craig. For a few days, their life got into the normality of US. But, suddenly, everything starts to go off a bit and then went totally wrong. David seems to have picked up some deep skin infection and he lost his job because he vomited in front of his boss. Bad things happened to Craig as well as he got stabbed by a stranger on the way to his apartment. The strange thing is that only Andrew who seems to be able to pass those horrific occurrences. But one day, at a Thai restaurant, an old Thai woman sees Andrew and Heather and senses something bad that is affecting the happy-looking couple. The old woman went to Andrew and told him that a tragic incident must have occurred when they were travelling in Bangkok. Because of this, Heather is interrogating Andrew about the series of events following their return from Bangkok. From here, Andrew tells the truth about the girl, Sita, who has been dragged out of the water, had been their tour guide and that they had spiked her drink as a prank. A prank that ended tragically. A few days later, Andrew saw Heather to be trying to kill Craig. She visited Craig in the hospital wielding a sacrificial knife. Luckily, Andrew was able to prevent the killing. He just found out that Heather had been possessed by the demon spirit. Andrew realizes that something must be done before more incidents took place. A shaman is called for and she sets about performing a bridge ceremony to rid the couple of their demons. All this got followed by heart-pounding series of hallucinations, stabbing, injuries and possessions until Andrew was able to own up to the shocking truth. The other two friend of him, David and Craig had tricked their female tour guide, Sita, into their rooms and raped her while Andrew stood by helplessly. Sita then commited a suicide. The shaman concludes that Sita's family had put a curse on the three men and in order to break the curse, Sita's spirit must first be appeased to guide Sita's spirit across to the underworld.

