The Roots of Heaven

 In Fort Lamy, French Equitorial Africa, idealist Morel launches a one-man campaign to preserve the African elephant from extinction, which he sees as the last remaining "roots of Heaven." At first, he finds only support from Minna, hostess of the town's only night club, who is in love with him, and a derelict ex-British Army Major, Forsythe. His crusade gains momentum and he is soon surrounded by an odd assortment of characters American TV commentator who becomes impressed and rallies world-wide support; a U.S. photographer, Abe Fields, who is sent to do a picture story on Morel and stays on to follow his ideals; Saint Denis, a government aide ordered to stop Morel; Orsini, a professional ivory hunter whose vested interests aren't the same as Morel's; and Waitari, leader of a Pan-African movement who follows Morel only for the personal good it will do his own campaign. A final condemnation of violence and intolerance through the story of Morel's adventures. Morel lives in Africa and can not stand the massacre of the elephants. He starts to fight to bannish this hunt and to awake the world's conciousness. As he starts, nobody supports him, but thanks to American reporter Sedgwick, he becomes famous. Some people come to help him, others try to use him... A Fort Lamy, nell'Africa Equatoriale Francese, arriva uno straniero, Morel, con lo scopo preciso di evitare lo sterminio degli elefanti. Trova un alleato in Sedgewick famoso cronista della televisione Americana, che gli promette una vasta campagna pubblicitaria in America. Mina, barista in un locale notturno, convince Forsythe, ex-ufficiale, ad accompagnarla sull'altopiano dove Morel si e' rifugiato con tre compagni un glottologo e Watari, indigeno doppiogiochista. Durante lo scontro con i cacciatori di elefanti capeggiati da Habib e dal transfuga Watari, trovano la morte Forsythe ed il glottologo. Morel riesce a salvare gli elefanti dal massacro, ma sente di non poter rischiare in un'iniziativa che potrebbe costare altre vite umane. Decide quindi di arrendersi marcia arriva ad un villaggio. Accolto con grande entusiasmo e rincuorato dalla stima di quanti seguono le sue azioni, Morel ritorna sui suoi passi e decide di continuare la lotta.

