The V.I.P.s

 Awaiting at London Airport for a flight to New York, Frances Andros, seen off by her tycoon husband, Paul Andros, plans to leave her spouse for the arms of an aging international playboy, Marc Champselle. Les Mangrum, a self-made Australian businessman traveling with his loyal secretary, Miss Mead, must be in New York the following day to arrange the loan that will help him repel a hostile takeover of his tractor company. Max Buba, a film mogul traveling with starlet Gloria Gritti, must get out of England immediately or face ruinous British income tax. The Duchess of Brighton has taken a job as a hostess at an American holiday resort, thinking she will be able to keep her family estate on her new income. Fog descends and blurs the future for them all, forced now to wait in the airport hotel for morning and fair weather. When London airport is fogged in, several travelers on the postponed flight to New York find themselves affected in one way or another. Frances Andros is running away from her husband Paul, a rich industrialist. She is unhappy in her marriage and feels that her husband no longer appreciates her. She is accompanied by her new love, Marc Champselle, a suave gigolo who genuinely loves her as well. She's left a note for her husband at home and the delay allows him to get wind of her plans and return to the airport to confront her. For businessman Les Mangrum, he's going to New York to stave off the take over of his company. It's essential that he attend the Board meeting later that day but a cheque he's written may be his downfall. His secretary, Miss Mead, finds a solution when she comes across Paul Andros in the hotel lobby. For movie producer Max Buda, getting out of England has to do with money - if he isn't out of the country by midnight, he will owe the British taxman a hefty sum. For the Duchess of Brighton, traveling to the USA is all about earning money to save her manor house and property. She's never flown before but the chance meeting with Max Buda provides her with a solution to her problems.

