The Facts of Life

 Two romantic couples are each married to different people! They really DO love each other. At the beginning Kitty thinks Larry is un-funny, unendurable, and unrelenting. Larry thinks Kitty is just plain dull. Then three couples cancel their trip. Kitty and Larry are ALONE! At the hotel they go under the silly names of Mr.George Washington and Mrs Martha Washington. Then they fall in love while going fishing. When Kitty caught her first fish she kissed Larry. Kitty and Larry started to spend a lot of time together. Then Kitty writes her husband a letter telling him that she wants Larry, not him. Then Kitty and Larry get into a big fight. They both see that they are making a big mistake. They thought it wasn't right to have an affair at their age (they were middle aged). Larry and Kitty are two middle-class suburbanites who find themselves growing bored with their lives and respective marriages. Although each always found the other grating in manner, they find themselves falling in love when thrown together without their spouses on a vacation. After returning home, they try to break things off, but always seem to grow closer. A holiday together will finally settle whether they should end their marriages. Suburban Pasadena couples Kitty and Jack Weaver, Mary and Larry Gilbert, and Connie and Doc Mason do everything together. Kitty and Mary are best friends, but Kitty and Larry don't get along. Kitty thinks Larry is a bore, and Larry doesn't like that Kitty doesn't laugh at his jokes. When the three couples plan a week long group trip together to Acapulco, they don't plan on the fact that out of circumstance Kitty and Larry would need to spend all their time together without the other four. Kitty and Larry also don't plan that in really getting to know each other that they would fall for each other, which is what happens. Kitty and Larry aren't certain if they're just caught up in the moment, if they're bored with their respective unsatisfying marriages or if it would have happened under regular circumstances. As their feelings for each other don't go away over time, they have to figure out what to do.

