The Lone Rider in Frontier Fury

 Having been framed and convicted of murder, Tom Cameron heads for Malone's saloon where wanted outlaws hang out. He learns Malone is after the ranch of the man he supposedly killed. When he tries to help the new owner he is captured by Malone's men who plan to hang him. Malone's daughter wants to get away from the saloon and hoping Tom will take her, gives him unexpected help. Elderly Jim Bowen, owner of the JB Ranch, is shot by a mysterious gunman. Tom Cameron, The Lone Rider, is riding through and is blamed for the murder but escapes. The ranch is willed to Georgia Deering, Bowen's Chicago-bred niece, much to the surprise and dismay of ranch foreman Clyde Barton, who had expected to inherit it. Georgia refuses to sell the property to lawyer Case Murdock, and she arrives to take care of the ranch. That night, while raiding the JB ranch-kitchen for food, the fugitive Tom is discovered by Georgia, who feeds him, unaware that he has been convicted of her uncle's killing. Barton enters, followed by "Loco" Weed, a half-with stable hand, and they get the drop on Tom. He escapes and heads for the camp of his friend and sidekick, "Fuzzy" Jones. Meawhile, Georgia discovers that "Loco" can prove Tom's innocence but is too scared to inform on the real murderer. Tom takes refuge at Wagon Wheel Gap, where he earns, by singer her a song, the friendship of Midge Malone, the spitfire daughter of outlaw leader Matt Malone. Tom goes back to Georgia's ranch and, when he gets there, discovers a gang about to kidnap her. He poses as one of them (?)and accompanies them back to the saloon in Wagon Wheel Gap where Georgia is made a prisoner in the back room, until she signs over the ranch deed, with Midge as her guard. "Loco" arrives and Murdock also, and "Loco" tells Tom that Murdock is the real killer of Jim Bowen. Tom is captured by Murdock's legion of henchmen, doubling as barflies, but tosses a match on some blasting powder, and he and the two girls take refuge in a barricaded room, and Tom is prepared to go down with both guns blazin'. The fourth film in the series, preceded by "The Lone Rider in Ghost Town" and followed by "The Lone Rider Ambushed.

