The Devil's Rejects

 In Ruggsville, Texas, the police under the command of Sheriff John Quincy Wydell attack the house of the sadistic serial killers Firefly family (a.k.a. The Devil's Reject) and they arrest mother Firefly, but Otis B. Driftwood and Baby Firefly escape from the siege. Tiny is wandering nearby the house and also escapes. Otis and Baby call their patriarch, the mad clown Captain Spaulding and they schedule to reunite at an isolated motel in the desert. When Otis and Baby arrive, they kidnap two families of singers, using sadism and violence against the harmless persons. Meanwhile, Sheriff Wydell promises to capture and kill the runaways, seeking revenge for the death of his brother, the Deputy George Wydell. Sequel to 'House of 1000 Corpses' is set some months later with the Texas State Police making a full-scale attack against the murderous Firefly family residence for the 1,000+ murders and disappearances of the past several years. But three of the family members escape, including Otis, Baby Firefly and Baby's father Captain Spaulding. The evil trio go on a road trip, leaving dozens of mangled bodies in their wake. Evading a massive Texas Rangers dragnet as well as a group of equally murderous bounty hunters led by Ken Dwyer (the brother of a policeman Mamma Firefly killed in 'House of...') who's obsessed with finding the deadly killers, the surviving Firefly clan gather at a run-down amusement park owned by Captain Spaulding's half-brother, Charlie Altamont, whom offers them shelter and a new base of operations for their killing spree as Sheriff Dwyer, the Texas Rangers, the FBI and others slowly close in. This is the sequel to Rob Zombie's House of 1000 Corpses, set some time after the original films plot line it opens with a raid on the murderous Firefly home by Ruggsville County Sheriff John Wydell, brother of Firefly victim Deputy George Wydell (from the first film). After a shootout in which several deputies are killed , with one son killed, Mother Firefly is captured , Baby,and Otis escape and rendezvous later with the Firefly patriarch, the mad clown Capt Spaulding. After a mind blowing murder escapade at a dusty desert motel they retreat to a frontier town whorehouse run by Spaulding's adopted "brother" Charlie, while Sheriff Wydell slowly loses his mind in his quest for revenge. He enlists the help of two equally disgusting bounty hunters and tracks the the trio, now dubbed the "Devil'Rejects" by the media to their location and sets the stage for the final showdown. A little while after the murders of the young people from HO1KC The Firefly family must escape Their house because it is surrounded by police. Capt. Spaulding meets up with Baby and Otis to find a hiding place. Meanwhile, Officer Whydel, Sherrif Whydel's brother seeks revenge on the family who became known as The Devil's Rejects.

