The Cutting Room

 THE CUTTING ROOM is a film within a film within a film within a film. Jordan has just finished filming his first horror flick (which takes place on the set of a porno). On the loose is a killer, a "figure-in-black", who is killing all of the crew--which are really actors playing the crew in Jordan's film. The "figure-in-black" is really a snuff-film-maker who makes his captives kill each other on film. But all of this is not really reality. Or is it? This is all, apparently, just the work of Jordan. The real story, as it unfolds within the film-within-a-film, is about Edit, his editor. See, the special effects all look so horribly cheesy that they all think the film is doomed. That is until Edit, and her right hand man Andy, (who happen to both be seasoned serial killers, did we mention that?) decide to start killing the actors on-set, in re-shoots of the original footage. All for the good of the film. For the sake of the art. The freshly shot kills are spliced into Jordan's footage to make the most horrific and realistic horror film of all time. Welcome to the Cutting Room. We just hope you don't end up on "The Floor." A film within a film within a film within a film. Jordan has just finished filming his first horror flick (which takes place on the set of a adult film). On the loose is a killer who is killing all of the crew-which are really actors playing the crew in Jordan's film. But there's a catch. The killer is really a snuff-film-maker who makes his captives kill each other on film. But all of this is not really reality. Or is it? This is all, apparently, just the work of Jordan. The real story, as it unfolds within the film-within-a-film, is about Edit, his editor. The special effects all look so horribly cheesy that they all think the film is doomed. That is until Edit, and her right hand man Andy, (who happen to both be seasoned serial killers) decide to start killing the actors on-set, in re-shoots of the original footage. All for the good of the film and for the sake of art. The freshly shot fresh kills are spliced into Jordan's footage to make the most horrific and realistic horror film of all time.

