The Palm Beach Story

 Gerry and Tom Jeffers are finding married life hard. Tom is an inventor/ architect and there is little money for them to live on. They are about to be thrown out of their apartment when Gerry meets rich businessman being shown around as a prospective tenant. He gives Gerry $700 to start life afresh but Tom refuses to believe her story and they quarrel. Gerry decides the marriage is over and heads to Palm Beach for a quick divorce but Tom has plans to stop her. Struggling architect Tom Jeffers and lovely wife Geraldine are at odds because she hates being broke and he won't let her use her sex appeal for his benefit. Exasperation comes to a head when a "Wienie King" slips Gerry $700, and she leaves on a screwball train trip to Florida for a divorce; Tom follows, determined to reclaim her. Enter eccentric millionaire John D. Hackensacker III and his man-hungry sister, to whom Gerry introduces Tom as her brother Captain McGlue... Married New Yorkers Tom and Geraldine Jeffers love each other, but money, or lack thereof, is causing problems in their marriage. Tom, an ideas man, needs $99,000 to finance his latest project - the working model of a suspended airport - money which no one is willing to provide. Gerry is feeling like a burden around her husband's neck as she, self-professed, has no marketable economic skills beyond her feminine wiles. So Gerry decides unilaterally to run off to Palm Beach, Florida and give Tom a divorce. Without money, she uses those feminine wiles to finesse her way to Palm Beach via train and yacht. One of those that assists her on her journey is extremely wealthy, single and straight-laced John D. Hackensacker III. Gerry thinks that John may be the answer to Tom's financial backing worries. So when Tom follows Gerry down to Palm Beach, she introduces him to John not as her soon to be ex-husband but rather her single brother, Captain McGlew, who John renames Mac. But with Mac being single and handsome, John's flamboyant and man-hungry sister Maude, also known as the Princess Centimillia, thinks she's found her next husband, just as John thinks he's found his future wife.

