The Prototypes

 A TV news reporter Vicky accidentally meets an alien who gives her the power to get anything she wants... as long as she can figure out how to ask for it in an alien language. Vicky and her Cameraman Bill evade Federal agents, a nasty boss, and an ego driven scientist. When the entire planet may be destroyed by a calculation error... only Vicky can save the world. In a dark cold alien world an alien salesman Bob is called into his manager's office octagon to be fired. Bob gets one last chance to prove himself. Bob has found a planet with enormous amounts of water, which is very valuable in the galaxy. Alien Bob sets his sights on visiting this out of the way backwater third-world planet and to make a big enough deal to save his job or maybe even retire. Meanwhile on that third-world planet... A young TV reporter Vicky and her sidekick/cameraman Bill are assigned all the worst news stories to cover because of their Assignment Desk Manager, and because they are young outsiders at the TV station. When the often-mocked Assignment Editor Hershe (with a silent E) sends Vicky and Bill to cover a lame story at the local small town airport, the terrestrial and the extraterrestrial worlds meet. The U.S. Navy and Air force make many attempts by to shoot down a fast moving U.F.O. The alien Bob in his U.F.O. eventually leaves the slow high-tech Earth technology aircraft in the dust and lands at the same small airport that Vicky and Bill are reporting from. From what was supposed to be a dreadful news story, Vicky ends capturing the most important story in the history of the world... Interviewing the first publicly known alien visitor. The alien Bob gives a gift to Vicky, a machine to order whatever she wants in the galaxy. The government in a haphazard attempt to conceal this alien contact tries desperately to stop Vicky and Bill from getting the alien footage on the air. Bill through his practiced slacker ways avoids the federal agents and gets the story on the air. Now faced with general public knowledge of an actual alien encounter, and the fact that the aliens will only accept direct communications from the first person they met on Earth, Vicky, the feds try and work together with Vicky to influence what is asked for from the aliens. Top scientist Dr. Wronski leads a small team of scientists and Vicky to determine just what should be asked for. After weeks of studying the alien artifact Dr. Wronski forces a decision from the committee. The result of Dr. Wronski's forced vote puts the entire planet at risk. The only person who is in a position to save the world is Vicky. Can Vicky do it?

