The Fourth Pillar

 In the near future, the world has become a cold place. The New State Government has come to power promising a bright future through several key initiatives. The New State Education Initiative is aimed at giving the lower class a higher standard of free education, stressing that society can be made better through knowledge. On the outside, the initiative creates a picture perfect learning environment, but on the inside... it's a different story. The Near Future E42. This school has been set up as part of a government initiative for education for the underprivileged. Once inside the doors Rheya discovers the school is altering novels and enforcing rules with tazers. She quickly befriends Alex and Cain who help her survive. Alex gets by by hiding his musical compositions from the school's enforcers; while Cain openly rebels. After unsuccessfully trying to recruit Rheya and Alex, Cain tries to stage a rebellion that results in the accidental death of a teacher. The headmaster insinuates that the students responsible will be the next to disappear. Two detectives are brought in to investigate the murder, however their hands seem to be tied by new governmental procedures. The students are confined to their dormitories while the investigation takes place. The investigation is being thwarted at every turn, while more and more students disappear. After witnessing a particularly brutal punishment of Alex, one of the teachers comes forward with evidence for the detectives. Even as the detectives begin to uncover the truth, Cain makes a mad dash for freedom which ends in his capture. Alex finally snaps and fights Cain, which lands Cain in the hospital. Rheya is caught and sent to detention Rheya amazing artwork as the detectives find a mass grave of buried students. Alex begins a rebellion and kills the headmaster when he tries to intervene. In the chaos, Alex dies but the students are freed. The Near Future E42. This school has been set up as part of a government initiative for educating for the underprivileged. Once inside the doors Rheya discovers the school is altering novels and enforcing rules with tazers. She quickly befriends Alex and Cain who help her survive. Alex gets by hiding his musical compositions from the school's enforcers, while Cain openly rebels. After unsuccessfully trying to recruit Rheya and Alex, Cain attempts a rebellion that results in the accidental death of a teacher. The headmaster insinuates that the students responsible will be the next to disappear. Two detectives are brought in to investigate the murder, however their hands seem to be tied by new governmental procedures. The students are confined to their dormitories while the investigation takes place. The investigation is being thwarted at every turn, while more and more students disappear. After witnessing a particularly brutal punishment of Alex, one of the teachers comes forward with evidence for the detectives. Even as the detectives begin to uncover the truth, Cain makes a mad dash for freedom that ends in his capture. Alex finally snaps and fights Cain, which lands Cain in the hospital. Rheya is caught and sent to detention; Alex discovers Rheya amazing artwork as the detectives find a mass grave of buried students. Alex begins a rebellion and kills the headmaster when he tries to intervene. In the chaos, Alex dies but the students are freed.

