The Stork Derby

 In 1926, when Charles Millar a wealthy never-married lawyer, died in Toronto, Canada, it was discovered that he had bequeathed a million dollars to the woman in Toronto who would have the most babies in the ten years after his death! This 'news' made headlines around the world and created one of the very first media frenzies that became known as the 'The Great Toronto Stork Derby'. The Toronto Daily Star sponsored race-coverage that spanned more than ten years, culminating in a sensational court case. What was perceived by many as a sick joke, proved tragic for many others, especially the poor and disenfranchised, who saw in this an opportunity to finally break free from the harsh and grueling realities of the thirties. The three front-runners were soon identified. The first was Vivianne Kennelly, a feisty, uneducated woman of French Canadian heritage, a devoted mother who believed that she had psychic relationship with the deceased Mr. Millar and that he had assured her that she would be the winner of his fortune. The second contender was Colleen Brant who had her eleven children by different fathers. Winning the derby for her meant freedom from her dependence on men and the responsibilities of motherhood. The third was Gina Bonaggio, a mother of Italian heritage, a wife of an immigrant, unemployed worker. The Derby was her only chance out of a desperate situation. As time wore on the media frenzy around these three families was fierce and oppressive, invading their personal lives, their homes and families. Threading the experiences of these three families is Kate Harrington the lone female reporter in the male dominated world of journalism. Kate is forced to compromise herself for the sake of staying ahead of other news publications and what originally started as an indignant story about the oppression of women resulted in one tragic choice that cost the life of one of Vivianne Kennelly's babies. Finally the court was to decide on a winner and through legal manipulation, rampant racism and British colonial prejudice the courts found many ways and used any means to disqualify the three women and awarded the prize to four Anglo Saxon Protestants mothers. The highest court in the land interpreted Millar's Will as being meant for a 'certain type' of woman and that it excluded other inferior types, such as Catholics, Immigrants and mothers with bastard children. For this end, the three families became the victims of legal wrangling and social harassment.

