The Price of Pleasure

 Once relegated to the margins of society, pornography has emerged as one of the most visible and profitable sectors of the cultural industries, assuming an unprecedented role in the mainstream of our popular culture at the same time that its content has become more extreme and harsh, more overtly sexist and racist. This eye-opening and disturbing film tackles the complexity behind this seeming paradox, placing the voices of critics, producers, and performers alongside the observations of men and women as they candidly discuss the role pornography has played in shaping their sexual imaginations and relationships. Honest and non-judgmental, The Price of Pleasure moves beyond the liberal versus conservative debates so common in the culture to paint a myth-busting and nuanced portrait of how pleasure and pain, commerce and power, liberty and responsibility have become intertwined in the most intimate area of our lives. An ideal tool for initiating classroom discussion about this notoriously difficult subject. DVD contains two version "hardcore" pornographic images) and a special "blurred" version edited for the classroom. DVD extras include an interview with Noam Chomsky about how and why he accepted an interview with Hustler magazine in 2004, and his candid view on pornography. Once relegated to the margins of society, pornography has become one of the most visible and profitable business sectors in the United States with estimated annual revenues totaling $13 billion. Going beyond the debate of good or bad this provocative film features the voices of consumers, critics, activists, producers and performers and asks the question pornography harmless? Filmmakers Miguel Picker and Chyng Sun take a look at the industry from a different perspective -purely intellectual. They provide an analytical evaluation on how pornography has shaped our culture and challenge the viewer to examine how the industry impacts our lives, our relationships and our sexual well-being. Get ready for an eye-opening and stimulating experience. Once relegated to the margins of society, pornography has become one of the most visible and profitable business sectors in the United States with estimated annual revenues totaling $13 billion. Going beyond the debate of good or bad this provocative film features the voices of consumers, critics, activists, producers and performers and asks the question pornography harmless? Filmmakers Miguel Picker and Chyng Sun take a look at the industry from a different perspective -purely intellectual. They provide an analytical evaluation on how pornography has shaped our culture and challenge the viewer to examine how the industry impacts our lives, our relationships and our sexual well-being. Get ready for an eye-opening and stimulating experience.

