The Last of Sheila

 Sheila is killed in a hit-and-run car accident following a party one night. A year later her multi-millionaire husband, Clinton, invites a group of her friends to spend a week on a his yacht. He's a notorious practical joker and insists his guests play a mystery game where each has been assigned a crime for the others to discover. Each night a series of clues is planted in the local port and the team must solve the identity of the criminal-of-the-day. However, things get out of hand and soon there's a real crime to solve. A year after the death of his wife Sheila - she was run over by a hit and run driver walking home from a party - the wealthy Clinton Green invites six of his friends to spend a week with him aboard hi yacht. Clinton loves to play elaborate games and he assigns everyone a secret - one is an alcoholic, another an informer and so on - that they are not to share with anyone. Every day day for the next six days, they will call into a port where they will be given clues to discover one person's secret. The game takes a deadly twist when a murder tales place and it all has to do with the game they've been playing and the secrets that Clinton assigned at the outset. It all seems solved but all is not what it appears. Clinton, a megalomaniacal Hollywood movie producer, invites six acquaintances on a week long French Riviera cruise on his yacht, the Sheila, named after his late wife. Those six, all B-players in the Hollywood movie scene, are director Philip, talent agent Christine, screenwriter Tom and his wife Lee, and actress Alice and her husband Anthony. The cruise coincides with the one year anniversary of Sheila's death by a hit-and-run driver after a Clinton-hosted party, at which all six of the invited cruisers, excluding Lee, were in attendance. The six suspect the cruise will be filled with parlor games (which Clinton loves) and discussions of a new movie. They are correct on both counts. The one and only parlor game, which Clinton is calling "The Sheila Green Memorial Gossip Game", is more elaborate than they imagined. It involves Clinton assigning each with a made-up dark secret which, if real, they would probably want hidden, and which the others are supposed to guess based on hidden clues provided each evening on shore at where ever their port of call. If they choose not to play, Clinton states that they can figure out the game from the comfort of the yacht "if they are smart enough". The better they do in the game, the greater their participation in Clinton's next project, a movie based on Sheila's life and more specifically death. Early in the game, some of the six suspect there is more to the game than what appears on the surface. The game quickly changes focus when some of the six truly figure out Clinton's motivations, or so they believe.

