The German Lullaby

 The German Lullaby is about two women Anna and Molly who live in present day New York. Molly (who has a Jewish background) finds out that Anna's family (who are of German descent) gave up a little Jewish girl, Hannah, in the Second World War to save their family. The German Lullaby reflects how hard it was for Germans in the 1940's as well as the Jews. Most people had no choice and did what they had to do to survive in those days. The German Lullaby was originally written as a stage play and shown in New York about 5 years ago. It has been adapted by Lesley Scammell (the writer) and Tess Malone (Producer/Director). Lesley has written many plays but this one in particular stands out as not only is it very dialogue heavy, which is quite unusual for a short film, but it has the format of a beginning, middle and an end. Although it has been adapted, there is also still a stage play feel to it (thinking of successes such as Dogville by Lars von Trier or the film version of Death of a Salesman) which will be kept as it conveys the feeling of the two of them being trapped in a room until all is resolved or not as the case may be. Some of the conventions of the stage have been used during the filming of the German Lullaby such as W/S of the scene giving the actors a chance to work the whole set in one shot, however, it will still be a film as opposed to a play shot on film. It is an intense piece about a couple whose family history back in the WW2 era comes out and affects their relationship today, how they feel about each other and questions their identity. It affects them greatly as one character (Molly) is a Jewish American woman while Anna is an American woman with German Ancestry. It is the discussion of the atrocities towards the Jews in the war, what the German people did to survive and how people are still affected by it today more than 60 years on. The carrying of baggage such as anger and guilt from that era are still embedded in society today.

