The Hot Chick

 Jessica Spencer is the hottest, most popular girl in high school. Later, Jessica, her bestest friend April, and a couple other hot girls Lulu and Keecia visits the mall to hang out and do some shopping. They enter a new age store, where they check out a pair of ancient earrings, which, unbeknownst to Jessica, are the same magical ones set in ancient Abyssinia. When a princess known as Princess Nawa, is disgusted by the groom of her arranged marriage, switches bodies with a slave girl by means of an enchanted set of earrings. Since the earrings are not for sale, Jessica steals them. But the next morning she gets a big doze if reality when she wakes up in the body of a 30-something-year-old lowlife male of Clive, a career criminal. While Clive finds himself in Jessica's. Now it's up to Jessica (in Clive's body) to find a way get her/his body back, while Clive (in Jessica's body) takes advantage of his/her new body to set in motion a crime spree to put the blame on Jessica! A "popular yet mean-spirited" teenage girl wakes up one day to find herself turned into a man in his 30's (Schneider). Along the way to finding out how she ended up like that (and how to get back into her own body), she discovers how shallow and cruel she's always been... Jessica Spencer, a somewhat mean spirited, popular and beautiful teenager, switches bodies with gas station robber Clive Maxtone one night and wakes up the next morning in his body. Freaked out, she must get her best friend April and two friends Lulu and Keecia to help her figure out what caused this. Along the her journey as a man, she discovers how mean she was and attempts to fix it while trying to get her boyfriend to believe its her. Jessica Spencer is a popular, but cruel and spoiled high school cheerleader who wakes up one day in the body of a 30-something man after having switched bodies with a petty crook, named Clive, thanks of a pair of mystical earings Jessica stole from a occult shop, one of which ends up in Clive's posession. Now Jessica (in Clive's body) must find a way get her/his body back while learning first-hand the values and cons of being a man, while Clive (in Jessica's body) takes advantage of his/her new body to set in motion a crime spree to put the blame on Jessica.

