The Untyings

 THE UNTYINGS - a cinematic journey about exorcisms in Transylvania. THE UNTYINGS brings us to Transylvania, a world steeped in religious belief, faith and tradition. Through the eyes of filmmaker Romi Chiroean, we travel the mountains of this old and wild region, returning with Romi to his hometown to begin the search into his past. Initially, Romi's journey home begins with few people willing to talk - especially his parents, who refuse to answer why he was taken to an exorcism at age 18. But as the death of a young nun during an exorcism shocks the country, people begin to speak up and Romi must delve deeper to try to understand what happened to him. As the film takes the viewer through the Transylvanian countryside, it moves from one level of belief to another - meeting Romi's family, a young archaeologist, a Protestant minister and several Orthodox monks. We explore Romi's personal story, the background of the nun's death and finally we meet Father Pintea. Seen by many believers as a spiritual leader, healer and exorcist, we witness his weekly exorcism to a crowded congregation of the possessed. Through Romi's touching and humorous journey, we discover the layers of meaning that lie beneath a country's collective conviction of this ancient ritual. This poetic story brings us an honest portrait of the practice and significance of exorcisms, and the unshakable passion that lies within the people who do it. THE UNTYINGS brings us to Transylvania, a world steeped in religious belief, faith and tradition. Through the eyes of filmmaker Romi Chiroean, we travel the mountains of this old and wild region, returning with Romi to his hometown to begin the search into his past. Initially, Romi's journey home begins with few people willing to talk - especially his parents, who refuse to answer why he was taken to an exorcism at age 18. But as the death of a young nun during an exorcism shocks the country, people begin to speak up and Romi must delve deeper to try to understand what happened to him. As the film takes the viewer through the Transylvanian countryside, it moves from one level of belief to another - meeting Romi's family, a young archaeologist, a Protestant minister and several Orthodox monks. We explore Romi's personal story, the background of the nun's death and finally we meet Father Pintea. Seen by many believers as a spiritual leader, healer and exorcist, we witness his weekly exorcism to a crowded congregation of the possessed. Through Romi's touching and humorous journey, we discover the layers of meaning that lie beneath a country's collective conviction of this ancient ritual. This poetic story brings us an honest portrait of the practice and significance of exorcisms, and the unshakable passion that lies within the people who do it.

