The Yellow Rolls-Royce

 Three stories about the lives and loves of those who own a certain yellow Rolls-Royce belated anniversary present, the Marchiness finds her own use for the vehicle - one which prompts her husband to sell the car in disgust. **Gangster Paolo Maltese's moll, Mae, thinks the Rolls is a "classy" car in which to tour Paolo's home town in Italy. When Paolo is called away to the States to finish some "business", a bored Mae takes the Rolls on a spin through the country, enjoying both the sights and the handsome Italian photographer who crosses her path. **By the outbreak of World War II, the car has come into the possession of socialite Gerda Millet. While on her way to visit Yugoslavian royalty, Gerda and the Rolls become (at first) unwitting and then (eventually) most willing participants in the Yugoslavian fight. Three stories of love-hurt linked only by a yellow Rolls Royce. Marquess Charles Printon, an aristocrat and diplomatic official of the British Foreign and Colonial Office in the days of the British Empire, buys a yellow brand new Phantom model as a belated anniversary present for his wife Eloyse. They attend the extremely fashionable Ascot horse Races, a socialite event never missed by the royal family, where the Marquess has a horse competing, which wins a cup, but any pride and joy taste bitter after finding Eloyse red-lipped committing infidelity in the Rolls with an assistant of his, without either knowing if there is actual love between them. For appearances sake, they agree as a modus vivendi to pretend nothing has changed. The cuckolded diplomat can no longer bare to look at the Rolls Royce, so it's sold and shipped to the Italian Riviera where -alledgedly after a maharajah, who lost it again in Monte Carlo casino- the Yankee mafioso Paolo Maltese buys it, eager to show his ancestral country to his spoiled, slutty fiancEe Mae, who alas appreciates nothing Italian and only starts having fun after they meet the young Stefano, an attractive young guide-photographer, who proves himself as an entertaining flirter. When Paolo must return a few days to Miami for business, he leaves Mae to continue the tour she couldn't care less for, nor the old lieutenant Joey Maltese left to chaperon her, so they are both bored, take a spin to the Amalfi coast, and in Sorianao bump into Stefano again, who this time gets to entertain and seduce Mae, and during a swim takes her diving to a mythological nymph's grotto, where Stefano finally learns how his till then unrecognized dangerous rival is, yet they finally kiss, silently noted by Joey, but she dreads Paolo's impending return, and just in time decides to dump her lover rather then risk a bloodbath... In 1941 the Rolls is in Trieste, where the Yugoslav Davich begs a ride from American celebrity Gerda Millet, who is on her way to visit his king Peter, is smuggled in the car-boot; soon war catches up, while his Mediterranean charm...

