The Nevada Buckaroo

 When the Nevada Kid gets caught in a stage robbery, the gang leader Cherokee gets him released by forging a petition to the Governor. The Kid tries to go straight but the stage he is guarding gets robbed. When the Sheriff jails Cherokee who was not in on the robbery, the Kid gets caught effecting Cherokee's escape and finds himself in jail again. Buck Hurley, known as the Nevada Kid, hangs around a robbed stagecoach flirting with passenger JoAnn Clinton and is captured by one of the passengers, He is sentenced to twenty years imprisonment in the Carson City pen, but most of the citizens of Rattlesnake Gulch feel that he should have been strung up, particularly stage driver Alec, who is interested in JoAnn. On the other hand JoAnn is interested in the Kid. Later, the Mayor of Rattlesnake Gulch has the citizens sign a petition he is taking to the Governor, requesting that Rattlesnake Gulch be made the county seat. The Kid's gang takes the petition from the Mayor, changes it as a request to pardon the Kid, keeps all of the signatures and "Cherokee" Williams presents it to the Governor, who is more than happy to comply with the wishes of the citizens of Rattlesnake Gulch since he is running for re-election and needs all the good will and votes he can get. The Kid is pardoned, returns to Rattlesnake Gulch to personally thank the citizens for getting his release, and the citizenry responds by running him out of town. He returns to the gang, finds out they were responsible for his release, but tells them that he has reformed and is now going to go straight. They run him off, and he returns to town and finally persuades the townspeople to allow him to prove his honest intentions, and gets a job as the stage guard. He asks his old gang not to rob any stages he is guarding but, while he is riding out ahead, they do anyway and shoot one of the passengers. To vindicate himself, the Kid rides to the gang hideout to recover the money and finds only "Cherokee", his only real friend in the gang, there alone as he would not take part in the robbery. When a posse breaks in and arrests "Cherokee", the Kid helps him escape and he is arrested and brought back to be hanged. "Cherokee" goes after the two who robbed the stage, retrieves the money, and takes Slade back with him.He stops the stage on the road, throws the money bags aboard, and climbs into the coach with his prisoner. When the stage arrives in town, "Cherokee" falls out dead as Slade had a concealed knife, killed him and jumped off. The Kid is freed, and goes after Slade.

