The Odessa File

 After reading the diary of an elderly Jewish man who committed suicide, freelance journalist Peter Miller begins to investigate the alleged sighting of a former SS-Captain who commanded a concentration camp during World War II. Miller eventually finds himself involved with the powerful organization of former SS members, called ODESSA, as well as with the Israeli secret service. Miller probes deeper and eventually discovers a link between the SS-Captain, ODESSA, and his own family. In 1963, freelance journalist Peter Miller is given the diary of an old man, Solomon Tauber, who had recently committed suicide. The diary deals with Tauber's incarceration at the Riga concentration camp. Miller becomes quite interested in the camp's commander, Eduard Roschmann, who he learns vanished after the end of the war. His enquiries with the police are not well received and he is warned to be careful, something he takes quite seriously after someone tries to kill him by pushing him in front of a moving train. He learns there is an organization known by the acronym ODESSA which assists former members of the SS to obtain new identities and evade the authorities. The secret organization has infiltrated all levels of German society and will apparently stop at nothing to protect its members. Israeli intelligence is also keen on infiltrating ODESSA and satisfied that Miller isn't an impostor, assist him in going undercover as a former SS camp guard needing assistance. Miller is soon found out by those who run the organization but he manages to locate Roschman nonetheless. Miller, it turns out, has his own very personal reasons for having wanted to find him. In 1963, young Peter Miller is working as a freelance journalist in Hamburg. He happens upon the diary of Salomon Tauber, an elderly German Jew who just committed suicide. The diary details Tauber's stay at Riga Concentration Camp during World War II under the sadistic command of S.S. Captain Eduard Roschmann, who Tauber saw alive from afar only three weeks prior in Hamburg. The sighting of Roschmann was the reason for Tauber's suicide. After reading the diary, Peter becomes obsessed with finding Roschmann. He soon learns that many of the S.S. were assisted in escaping following the war by a group called ODESSA, which is still active in advancing the ideals of Nazi Germany. ODESSA has become secretly ingrained in all aspects of power in Germany. One of the current ODESSA projects is perfecting biological warfare rocket attacks in order to annihilate Israel, the work for which is being conducted by an unknown but legitimate German company whose workers are unaware of their task. For their mutual benefit, the Israeli Secret Service co-opts Peter into going undercover to infiltrate ODESSA, Peter agreeing only on the understanding that he will deal with Roschmann in his own way. As Peter gets deeper in his investigation, he places his life and that of his girlfriend, Sigi, in danger.

