The Seven-Ups

 New York City cops wage a war against assorted hoods and criminals after one of their own is brutally killed by a hoodlum. Seven-Ups refers to the minimum jail time each of the crooks will have to spend if they are caught. The seven-ups are a secret, elite New York detective squad who are very effective in catching criminals, even if their tactics are questionable. However, what one of the detectives doesn't know is that one of his informants is mastermind of a plot to kidnap loan sharks. The kidnappers get to their victims by impersonating police officers. While investigating one of the disappearances, one of the seven-ups gets spotted and is killed. The situation puts the seven-ups in a precarious position because it looks like they are tied to the kidnappings. So now one detective has to find the murderers and clear the seven-ups' soiled reputation. A sting takes place at an antique store that is a front for laundering counterfeit money. It is the latest success of The Seven-Ups, a squad of undercover NY policemen whose collars regularly get sentences of seven years or up. Two mobsters are presently in the squad's sights - Max Kalish, a businessman, and Festa, a bail bondsman. However, Buddy Manuchi, the Seven-Ups' leader, gets wind of strange and violent happenings within the mob, unaware that Max Kalish was kidnapped and held until payment of a huge ransom, and now he and other mobsters are in panic mode. Things then go from bad to worse for both The Seven-Ups and Kalish's mob when one the the squad's members is found out and tied up in a car trunk, only to see the real kidnappers grab Cotello, one of Kalish's partners, and blast him and the helpless undercover cop. When Buddy arrives on the scene, the real killers flee, and a mad car chase through the streets of New York blasts onto the country freeway and ends in a savage crash into the underside of a crippled 18-wheeler. The Seven-Ups now probe to find out who is kidnapping mobsters to find the killers of their partner, and Buddy suddenly realizes they have a police mole working for them.

