The Killer

 The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), India, has been made aware of a killer cab-driver in Malaysia who killed several people in a matter of hours, and then crashed his taxi and killed himself. The same think happened again, this time in Hong Kong, several people were killed by another cab-driver, who also ended up being killed. Now Ranvir Oberoi of the CBI is in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, working together with Dubai Police to protect several witnesses who have agreed to testify against notorious Dubai-based Don, Jabbar. Then the unexpected happens when at first Malika, a witness against Jabbar, gets killed; then Mussa, another witness's girlfriend is killed, with Mussa, himself, missing. Dubai police who are carrying out video surveillance of Jabbar's palatial mansion find that a Cabby, of Indian origin, Nikhil Joshi, was seen entering his estate's gates, and witnesses had stated that they had seen his taxi outside the site of recent murders. The Police race, not only to protect, the remaining three witnesses, Kamaal Khan, Akbar Sheikh, and cabaret dancer, Priya, but also attempt to apprehend this killer, before he kills everyone on his list, and ends up killing himself. Nikhil Joshi (Emraan Hashmi) is a young Indian who has gone to Dubai, and dreams of making it big out there. At present however, he is a taxi driver, and is madly in love with a bar girl Ria (Nisha Kothari). So smitten is he, that he is willing to do anything for his love - even Die. However, life has other plans for him when one night, a suave businessman Vikram (Irrfan Khan), hails his cab. Joshi discovers that this pleasant passenger has an agenda of his own and a rather sinister one at that. Vikram holds Joshi hostage in a bizarre plot to bump off various people who would testify against the dreaded don Jabbar, who is at risk of being deported to India to face charges against him. As Nikhil helplessly becomes witness to one killing after another, he finds his life and dreams crumbling around him. Faced with the prospect of losing everything he has been working towards, he finally takes control of the steering wheel of his life. He stops dreaming and starts acting, as he begins to pit his wits against the assassin. Will Nikhil succeed in getting the better of The Killer or will this night force him to lose everything that he has - his Love and his Life?

