The Mask of Zorro

 The original Zorro, Don Diego de la Vega, is captured and imprisoned just as Spain concedes California to Santa Anna. 20 years go by and his mortal enemy, Don Rafael Montero, returns to California with a plan to become wealthy at the expense of the peasants. The original Zorro escapes from prison and trains a new Zorro to take his place. Much swashbuckling and derring-do ensues. Don Diego de la Vega/Zorro returns from exile to avenge the death of his wife, who was killed by his enemy, Don Rafael Montero. Montero took de la Vega's daughter, Elena, and raised her as Elena Montero. The older Zorro takes it upon himself to train his successor, Alejandro Murrieta, who had once helped Zorro escape. Alejandro is cocky and comical, but shows some talent with sword play. What happens when the daughter and the protEgE of Zorro meet? Sparks! Zorro saves three men from the fleeing Spanish Governor but is followed to his home where his wife is killed and his infant daughter taken and is imprisoned. Twenty years later he escapes and finds his daughter has been raised as the governor's child. Vowing revenge he takes a young thief who is also seeking revenge as his apprentice, who will become the new wearer of the Mask of Zorro. In early 19th century California the masked swordsman hero Zorro was a champion of the people against the tyranny of Spanish rule, represented by the ruthless Governor Montero. Unfortunately, on the eve of his greatest triumph, the liberation of California, Montero learns of Zorro's secret identity as Don Diego de la Vega and attacks the rebel in his home leaving him imprisoned, his wife dead and his daughter abducted to be claimed as the child of Montero. Twenty years pass, and Montero returns to California intent on a foul plan to bring it under his total control. Upon learning of his return, Don Diego escapes from his long imprisonment and prepares for his revenge. Part of it involves the training of an orphan who helped him as a boy to become his successor. Together, the two must prepare to do battle with Montero and his American henchman to save California and reunite with Diego's lost daughter. So once again, the enemies of freedom and justice in California must fear of the man who leaves the mark of the Z.

