The Price

 A post-modern "western" film that explores the difference between an outlaw and a criminal. This character driven piece draws inspiration from John Carpenter & The Three Sergios (Sollima, Leone, Corbucci). Set in an economically ravaged New York City with no central authority, the story centers around two bandits and a bounty hunter. "The Price" is a gritty film that appeals to a broad audience of action fans and independent film fans. The two outlaws, Ceferino and Arrio, have been stealing food and other supplies to help their family survive. They have been so successful that a local boss has put a large price on Ceferino's head. Ceferino wants to leave New York to escape the bounty, the cold weather, and the food shortages. Arrio, on the other hand, is attracted to the "glamour" of the outlaw lifestyle and resents Ceferino for getting all the attention and notoriety from the heists they commit together. Arrio wants to stay in New York City and build their reputation as bandits. The price on Ceferino's head attracts the attention of Drake Adder, the most vicious bounty hunter in New York. Will Ceferino convince Arrio to leave the outlaw life behind before Drake finds them? In a world where all political and economic infrastructures have failed, Ceferino, a New York City outlaw, is consumed with thoughts of escaping the city; he carries an old "Visit Sunny Florida" brochure in his pocket. Winters are harsh, and the food situation is more desperate than ever. The heists he and his protege, Arrio, pull off are just barely allowing them to survive. Ceferino's main obstacle between him and Florida is his lack of transportation. So he and Arrio stage a carefully planned, career capping heist and steal the rarest of commodities Ceferino is identified by a local informant and a huge bounty is placed on his head, attracting the attention of Drake Adder, the most vicious bounty hunter in New York City. But Ceferino also has a new problem; Arrio, riding high from the big job, is seduced by the idea of fame and notoriety, and now wants to remain in New York to build on their infamy. As Ceferino and Arrio grow farther apart Drake only draws nearer, and soon Arrio finds himself at a crossroads. He can follow the path of his mentor or adopt the way of the gun, but each choice carries a heavy price.

