The Whirlwind

 After years of wandering, Tim returns to Sagebrush where he is suspected of murder and the conflict between him and Sheriff Hurley is reignited. After Tim beats Hurley in a wrestling match he goes to the bank to collect. But Hurley and banker Blackton, taking money from the bank, claim Tim robbed the bank. Another one of the many, many Columbia Pictures westerns that were sold to Gail Pictures for television distribution that has the original title frame missing --- the correct title is "The Whirlwind" as shown on the original prints --- and cast/crew sheets redone with the result that the Gail prints left off some credited players and role names. This, of course, allows some contributors who have seen only the title and cast/crew frames as shown on the Gail prints to submit an incorrect cast order and some incorrect "uncredited" attributes beside the names of players who were credited on the original Columbia frames that were replaced by the highly-error ridden and badly-redone Gail credit frames. A good rule of thumb for those who rely on the Gail prints to be accurate is... don't. And never verify a cast/crew as being complete based on the Gail prints that evidently left off Walt Coburn as the author (story) and show only Stuart Anthony, who did the adaptation, as the sole writer.(Well, verify them if you want to, especially those who think the Gail prints are the last word in accuracy, but you'll be wrong and also be providing a disservice to film historians who care about accuracy.) That is an assumption,reference only one writer credited on the Gail print that is not used here, since Anthony's name is the only one currently shown on site as a writer.The credited cast in cast order, as shown on the original Columbia credit frames was Dahl,Pat O'Malley,J.Carrol Naish,Matthew Betz,Joseph G. Girard (billed as Joe Girard), Lloyd Whitlock, William McCall (billed as Bill McCall), Stella Adams, Theodore Lorch (billed as Ted Lorch) and Mary Gordon. And, by the way, the Gail prints are missing some original footage. The story summary has Tim Reynolds and his two pals, Pat Patrick and "Injun" return to Tim's hometown to find that Sheriff Tate Hurley has managed to embitter the whole town against Tim, with the exception of Mollie Curtis and her mother. The trio takes all the prizes at the rodeo,and going to collect the money in order to pay off the note Hurley holds against the Reynolds' ranch, Tim surprises a getaway plot by Hurley and bank cashier Blackton. But Tim and his pals have to ride away after Sheriff Hurley and his henchmen accuse them of being the bank robbers. Later, Hurley, in a plot devised by Tim, overhears that a money shipment is coming through by stagecoach. When the Hurley gang comes out to rob the stage,they find it is a trap set by Tim.

