The Net

 Angela Bennett's a software engineer type who works from home and has few friends outside of cyberspace. Taking her first vacation in years she becomes embroiled in a web (sic) of computer espionage. Angela Bennett lives the life of a computer geek contract employee of Cathedral Software as a software analyst, lives a reclusive life on her computer and as such has few friends or acquaintances who even know what she looks like. Even her mother, who has Alzheimer's, no longer recognizes her. Cathedral's fortunes in the computer software world are increasing with what looks to be the universally used Gatekeeper security program, which they developed. During a period when Angela is dealing with what looks to be a virus in one of Cathedral's new games, she takes a vacation to Mexico. There, she meets the suave Jack Devlin, the two who begin a romance. But Jack is not all he seems as he tries to kill her, apparently having something to do with the work issue she is facing. Angela manages to escape from Jack, but hits larger issues when slowly she realizes that Jack and the group to which he is tied, who she eventually learns are called the Praetorians, have stolen her identity, and provided her a new identity with a criminal history. As Angela tries to find anyone who can vouch for her assertion of who she really is (with most in authority not believing her story since their computer systems are protected by the fail-safe Gatekeeper program), she tries to elude Jack while trying, mostly via computer, to figure out who he is, why he is trying to kill her, and how to get her identity back. Angela Bennett is a computer expert. This young and beautiful analyst is never far from a computer and modem. The only activity she has outside of computers is visiting her mother. A friend, whom she's only spoken to over the net and phone, Dale Hessman, sent her a program with a weird glitch for her to de-bug. That night, he left to meet her and was killed in a plane crash. Angela discovers secret information on the disk she has received only hours before she leaves for vacation. Her life then turns into a nightmare, her records are erased from existence and she is given a new identity, one with a police record. She struggles to find out why this has happened and who has it in for her.

