The Perfumer

 guaranteed to change the way you smell perfume... Edward Pinchbeck, a thirty-five-year-old professional perfumer, owns a modest perfume boutique, lives alone with his pet parakeet and enjoys discussing the virtues of pheromones and musky secretions. Extremely shy around women, Edward is secretly in love with his overpaid and underworked store clerk, Daisy, who remains steadfastly uninterested in him. Edward's drab life drastically changes when, one day, he stumbles across an orchid with an astonishing scent. Determined to get a cutting from the flower, Edward is thwarted by old acquaintance Millicent Hedgerow, president of the local flower society, and her officious German secretary, Roland Kemp. Undeterred, Edward finally succeeds in stealing a piece of the orchid and, a few weeks later, concocts a perfume from its petals. The new scent, however, is an aphrodisiac with an overpowering effect on those who are exposed to it. Edward, now irresistible to men and women alike, unleashes a series of sexual misadventures involving Roland, Millicent, Daisy, her biker boyfriend-and a group of orgy-minded customers who invade Edward's store. Guaranteed to change the way you smell perfume... Edward Pinchbeck, a thirty-five-year-old professional perfumer, owns a modest perfume boutique, lives alone with his pet parakeet and enjoys discussing the virtues of pheromones and musky secretions. Extremely shy around women, Edward is secretly in love with his overpaid and underworked store clerk, Daisy, who remains steadfastly uninterested in him. Edward's drab life drastically changes when, one day, he stumbles across an orchid with an astonishing scent. Determined to get a cutting from the flower, Edward is thwarted by old acquaintance Millicent Hedgerow, president of the local flower society, and her officious German secretary, Roland Kemp. Undeterred, Edward finally succeeds in stealing a piece of the orchid and, a few weeks later, concocts a perfume from its petals. The new scent, however, is an aphrodisiac with an overpowering effect on those who are exposed to it. Edward, now irresistible to men and women alike, unleashes a series of sexual misadventures involving Roland, Millicent, Daisy, her biker boyfriend-and a group of orgy-minded customers who invade Edward's store.

