The Sum of All Fears

 When the president of Russia suddenly dies, a man whose politics are virtually unknown succeeds him. The change in political leaders sparks paranoia among American CIA officials, so CIA director Bill Cabot recruits a young analyst to supply insight and advice on the situation. Then the unthinkable happens quick to blame the Russians. When the President of Russia dies and his replaced by a man with a cryptic past, putting the United States on alert to rising Cold War fears. When the CIA suspects that renegade Russian scientists are attempting to develop more mobile nuclear weapons, East-West tensions over flow. CIA director William Cabot sends his best agent, Jack Ryan into action. What Ryan discovers is that terrorists are planning to provoke a war between the U.S. and Russia, by detonating a nuclear bomb at a football game in Baltimore. The United States is very critical of the Russians' treatment of Chechneya that are ready to step in but the new Russian President, whom they believe is a hardliner, tells them that this is none of their concern. However, CIA analyst Jack Ryan, who did research on the man, doesn't think he is. But when the Russians continue to attack Chechneya and the Russian President claims responsibility when in reality he is not, the Americans are ready to go against him. But what they don't know is that there is a third party who is trying to push them into war; which may happen when they detonate a nuclear bomb in the U.S. and people in the Russian Military are in league with this third party and helping him push the two countries to war. But Ryan knows something's going on and is trying to find out what it is before it's too late. When the Russian President suddenly dies of a heart attack, the new Russian President is sworn in quickly. American intelligence belives him to be a hard-liner, but young CIA analyst Jack Ryan doesn't think so. While Ryan & his boss, Bill Cabot, are inspecting disarmament at Russian nuclear sites, 3 Russian scientists have mysteriously disappeared. Although the Russians have explanations for their absence, none of them are true. In Austria, a strange man - a neo-fascist - has developed a frightening plan to incite a war between Russia & the U.S., using an unexploded bomb from the deserts of the Middle East. When the 3 Russian scientists are later found dead, Ryan tries to trace their path. By this time, the bomb is on its way to the U.S.A - in a cigarette machine! The bomb is placed in a football stadium where the U.S. President is in attendance. Ryan soon discovers the bomb is in Baltimore and alerts Bill Cabot, who gets the President out of the stadium quickly. Minutes later, the low-yield nuclear bomb explodes, killing several thousands! From Air Force One, the President transmits messages to the Russian President, who denies that the Russians have placed the bomb on U.S. soil. But rogue members of the Russian Air Force are in on the sinister plan, and when an aircraft carrier is attacked and crippled by Russian planes, things quickly go from bad to worse. It is up to Ryan to find out where the bomb came from and get that information to the President before SNAPCOUNT - the order to launch ICBMs at Russia - is completed. When a terrorist faction plans to turn American against Russia by placing a nuclear weapon in a Baltimore, DCI William Cabot calls in CIA analyst Jack Ryan to figure out the plans behind this faction and prevent a total catastrophe occurs.

