The Stunt Man

 While on the run from the police, Steve Railsback hides in a group of moviemakers where he pretends to be a stunt man. Both aided and endangered by the director (Peter O'Toole) he avoids both the police and sudden death as a stuntman. The mixture of real danger and fantasy of the movie is an interesting twist for the viewer as the two blend in individual scenes. Cameron is a Vietnam War veteran on the run from the police. While on the run, Cameron gets involved in an incident which is witnessed by Eli Cross, the enigmatic and ego-maniacal director upon whose WWI anti-war movie on-location set Cameron has inadvertently stumbled. Based on what he saw, Eli offers Cameron a job as the stunt double for the movie's lead character played by actor Raymond Bailey, the job offer despite Cameron never having done stunt work. Eli figures that the offer will solve both his and Cameron's short term problems. Cameron ends up being a daredevil of a stunt man, whose combined moxie and inexperience may jeopardize his safety and that of those around him. Yet Eli keeps him around. Cameron begins a relationship with the movie's lead actress, Nina Franklin. As Cameron gets to know those on set, especially Nina and Eli, he thinks he's figured out why Eli is keeping him around. Cameron, who by this time has opened up to Nina about his war experiences - which has resurfaced because of this movie - and his associated crime, shares his unseemly thoughts with her about Eli, her long time friend. Cameron ultimately believes that Eli will do anything required to get the shot that he wants. Cameron is an ex-soldier on the run. He stumbles onto a movie location at a beach resort, and megalomaniacal director Eli Cross compels him to take the job of a stunt man, to replace one who earlier drowned in a dangerous stunt. While Cameron needs the cover offerred by the job and begins to fall in love with actress Nina Franklin, he worries that the fate intended for him by Eli is the same as the fate sufferred by his predecessor.

