The Zinghoppers

 Toot! Toot! Hop on the Happy Train with the Zinghoppers for a dance party! It's a special made-for-TV concert of positive preschool pop from Nashville's #1 Kids Entertainers - Penelope The Possum, Olo The Donkey, Coconuts The Kangaroo and Conductor Jack. Joined by the Zinghop-a-Bluegrass Band and the Zinghoppy String Quartet, this concert includes music, dancing, comedy, storytelling, puppets and magic - for a fun time full of laughing and learning. Get ready to sing, dance, and - of course - hop along with your friends the Zinghoppers in their first ever PBS concert special. Toot! Toot! Hop on the Happy Train with the Zinghoppers for a dance party! It's a special made-for-TV concert of positive preschool pop from Nashville's #1 Kids Entertainers - Penelope The Possum, Olo The Donkey, Coconuts The Kangaroo and Conductor Jack. Joined by the Zinghop-a-Bluegrass Band and the Zinghoppy String Quartet, this concert includes music, dancing, comedy, storytelling, puppets and magic - for a fun time full of laughing and learning. Get ready to sing, dance, and - of course - hop along with your friends the Zinghoppers in their first ever PBS concert special. Toot! Toot! Hop on the Happy Train with the Zinghoppers for a dance party! It's a special made-for-TV concert of positive preschool pop from Nashville's #1 Kids Entertainers - Penelope The Possum, Olo The Donkey, Coconuts The Kangaroo and Conductor Jack. Joined by the Zinghop-a-Bluegrass Band and the Zinghoppy String Quartet, this concert includes music, dancing, comedy, storytelling, puppets and magic - for a fun time full of laughing and learning. Get ready to sing, dance, and - of course - hop along with your friends the Zinghoppers in their first ever PBS concert special. Toot! Toot! Hop on the Happy Train with the Zinghoppers for a dance party! It's a special made-for-TV concert of positive preschool pop from Nashville's #1 Kids Entertainers - Penelope The Possum, Olo The Donkey, Coconuts The Kangaroo and Conductor Jack. Joined by the Zinghop-a-Bluegrass Band and the Zinghoppy String Quartet, this concert includes music, dancing, comedy, storytelling, puppets and magic - for a fun time full of laughing and learning. Get ready to sing, dance, and - of course - hop along with your friends the Zinghoppers in their first ever PBS concert special.

