The Graffiti of Mr. Tupaia

 ***Contains SPoilers***Mr Tupaia, an immigrant cleaner at a typical NZ school, plods through his routine been drained from the hallways and rooms, isolated from other people by his age, job and race. Proud and diligent, but silent, he returns each day to the humble State house he shared with his wife until she passed away. While scrubbing graffiti in the girls' swimming pool toilet he discovers an unusual message amongst the usual graffiti. It reads stilled. When he is unable to find anyone to report it to, he is provoked enough to risk a reply, his own graffiti question expect a response, but he gets one and a unique graffiti conversation evolves on the toilet wall. Despite crossing the boundaries of his job, and risking being caught, it becomes a part of his routine that he relies on and looks forward to with apprehension. Who is his curious correspondent? It doesn't matter. Mr Tupaia is compelled to continue even when the questions get difficult and his lazy, crass, co-cleaner gets suspicious. A swimming costume stuffed into a toilet cistern provides the first clue to the identity of the words' author. The turning point comes as Mr Tupaia is confronted with a stunning reality check. The bubble of this graffiti relationship is popped as he encounters his correspondent, a young school girl, Lena, in the toilet. Mr Tupaia sees that she is the victim of domestic abuse and has been hiding in the cubicle to avoid having to expose her battered body during swimming class. As he reels in shock, a teacher walks in, catching him awkward, compromised and alone in the toilet with Lena. Mr Tupaia fails to take the opportunity to communicate Lena's devastating secret to the teacher and she hurriedly leaves dragging Lena behind her to the swimming class outside. Mr Tupaia once more attempts to relay his discovery to the teacher but she quickly dismisses him, unwilling to listen. Mr Tupaia, unsure what to do, is tormented by the weight of his responsibility to Lena. The next day a class lines up chattering and excited by the pool. Lena straggles behind, curious and filled with dread at the thought of another swimming class. When she gets to the edge of the pool its empty. The glimpse of a smile crosses Lena's face but this quickly disappears when she catches sight of Mr Tupaia talking animatedly to the teacher, who finally appears to be listening. The teacher looks across the pool at Lena and hurries towards her. Mr Tupaia has done the right thing, but his fleeting connection with Lena is over.

