The Contractor

 Retired CIA Black-Ops hit man James Jackson Dial is living his life in seclusion on his ranch in Montana when he is offered the chance to redeem himself by his former employer, Jeremy Collins. A few years ago, Dial was seconds away from taking down notorious terrorist cell leader Ali Mahmoud Jahar when when his carelessness allowed Jahar to escape, marking his mission as a failure. Now, Collins wants Dial to eliminate Jahar, who has been captured and is now in the custody of the police in London, England. Provided with a safe house, passports, and an assistant named Terry Winchell, Dial is off to London to finish what he started years ago. Disguised as a priest, Dial gets in position in a church's bell tower across the street from the building that Jahar is being brought into. When Jahar is brought out of his transport truck, his head is covered by a jacket, leaving Dial without a clean shot. Not wanting to fail again, Dial patiently waits for his opportunity. Moments later, Dial fatally shoots Jahar in the head. Because of a delay caused by a pair of cops, Winchell is late bringing the getaway car, and that brings attention to them fleeing the scene. After numerous attempts to stop the car, the police open fire, killing Winchell. The car, now out of control, comes to crashing stop, injuring Dial. On the run and bleeding profusely, Dial makes his way to the safe house, where he meets curious 12-year-old neighbor Emily Day, who lives with her grandmother. Emily helps Dial stop the bleeding. Even though Jahar was eliminated, the mission was a failure to Collins because Dial was observed fleeing the scene on a security camera. In the USA, Collins is being investigated for running a CIA Hit Squad, and if word gets back about Dial and the death of, Collins will be exposed. Stopping at nothing to keep his name clean, Collins frames Dial for the murder of Chief Inspector Andrew Windsor. Now a wanted man by Collins and the British police, Dial must do whatever it takes to prove his innocence, knowing that Inspector Annette Ballard, Windsor's vengeful daughter, is after him as well. A marksman living on his ranch in Montana is coaxed back into action to kill a terrorist who he missed killing while on duty. After succeeding in killing Jahar he is ultimately double-crossed and framed for killing a high ranking policeman. He then goes into hiding and befriends a young 12 year old girls helps him. The film begins at the Montana ranch home of a former CIA Opperative - James Dial. One last time, he is coaxed back into action to kill a terrorist in London. It all goes wrong and he is forced into hiding where he meets and befriends a 12 year old girl.

