The Shop Around the Corner

 In Budapest, Hungary, the Matuschek and Company store is owned by Mr. Hugo Matuschek and the bachelor Alfred Kralik is his best and most experienced salesman. When Klara Novak seeks a job position of saleswoman in the store, Matuschek hires her but Kralik and she do not tolerate each other. Meanwhile the lonely and dedicated Kralik has an unknown pen pal that he intends to propose very soon; however, he is fired without explanation by Matuschek in the night that he is going to meet his secret love. He goes to the bar where they have scheduled their meeting with his colleague Pirovitch and he surprisingly finds that Klara is his correspondent; however, ashamed with the unemployment, he does not disclose his identity to her. When Matuschek discovers that he had misjudged Kralik and committed a mistake, he hires him again for the position of manager. But Klara is still fascinated with her future fiancE and does not pay much attention to Kralik. Alfred Kralik is the senior salesman in a long established Budapest book shop, owned by the likealbe and kindly Hugo Matuschek. Alfred has been there for 9 years and is very good at his job. One day a young woman, Klara Novak,comes into the shop looking for a job. They don't really have a position available but she impresses Mr. Matuschek with her skills and is taken on. Alfred and Klara don't get along very well but unbeknown to either of them, they have been corresponding anonymously. On the day he is to meet her finally, Alfred is fired for reasons that are not clear to him. He has always gotten along well with Mr. Matuschek who it turn out, suspects him of having an affair with his wife. He's wrong of course but that evening, Alfred sees that Klara is the one he has been corresponding with. He's soon back in the shop when Mr. Matuschek realizes his error but the question now is how he could possibly impress her without revealing who he is. "Matuschek's" is the gift shop around the corner. Among the staff is Alfred Kralik, a likeable young man who's in love with a woman he has never met and whose name he doesn't even know (their "romance" has been conducted through a post office box). When Klara Novak comes to work as a clerk in the shop, the sparks begin to fly Of course, what neither knows is that Klara is the woman Alfred has been romancing through the mail!

