The Mission in the Desert

 Nell, the Mexican girl, trusted Ned, the young prospector. She trusted him with her honor and all that a woman holds sacred. She loved him. He was young and rash, but not bad at heart and he did not weigh sufficiently the seriousness of his relationship with Nell. Joe, Ned's partner, loved Nell too. He was an older, saner man than Ned, and in a spirit of noble-sacrifice, held back and encouraged the young folks in their love. But youthful love is sometimes impatient and that impatience conquered the discretion of Nell and Ned, and when the girl realized what she had done, she pleaded with Ned to marry her and save her honor. He bade her wait until he could take her back to his people in the East. Jose, Nell's brother, overheard the girl's plea and challenged Ned for an explanation. They were about to clash in combat when Joe interposed and learned the strained condition of affairs. He sent the Mexican on his way and broken-hearted, told his young comrade that they must part. This blow was terrible to Ned, for he loved Joe better than a brother, but his plea was in vain. Joe left all the gold to Ned, save one nugget and went away. No sooner had Joe gone than Jose stole in upon Ned and killed him. When Nell learned of her lover's death, she ran distractedly to his side and hysterically pleaded with him to come back to life and save her honor. A ranger found her beside the body and took her to her home. Jose confessed his crime and was arrested. Poor Nell was turned away from her home disgraced. A kindly neighbor took her in and reduced to an outcast, as subject of pity and charity, she began to pine her young life away. After a week of terrible suffering, she could stand it no longer and going to the grave of Ned, she bade him good-by and seeking a secluded spot, was about to plunge a knife into her heart, when she discovered before her the " Shrine of Lourdes." A new spirit entered her heart, and looking out across the desert, she saw the Mission blazing white in the sun, beckoning her to come, where rest was waiting. The Mother Superior took her in and the doors of the Mission closed on the suffering of the world. Then is was that Joe returned, and learning of the tragedy of his young companion, he sought the grave. Nell was there in the garb of a man strewing the grave with flowers. The Mother Superior was with her. Joe pleaded with her to give up her seclusion and come with him, but the Mother turned her away and led her back to the Mission. Joe followed, pleading for his love, but the church had taken the girl to the solacing comfort of its bosom. The big oaken doors closed up on Nell, and brokenhearted, Joe turned back to struggle on alone in the world.

