The Man with the Golden Gun

 Scaramanga is a hit-man who charges a million dollars per job. He becomes linked to the death of a scientist working on a powerful solar cell, and James Bond is called in to investigate. As he tracks down Scaramanga, he realises that he is highly respected by the killer, but will this prove to be an advantage in the final showdown? Scaramanga, a hit man who is known as "the man with the golden gun", because of the golden gun he carries and the gold bullets he uses on his targets. Bond receives a message supposedly from Scaramanga saying that Bond is his next target. So M decides to relieve Bond of his duties till the danger has been neutralized. But Bond feeling that the mission he was on is of the utmost urgency decides to go and find Scaramanga himself. And he thinks he found him but discovers that Scaramanga is not after him when he had a clear shot at him and missed, which he doesn't do. But the man who was killed is the man he was originally looking for. A scientist working on a device that can make harnessing the sun's energy possible. So he must now find the device. When a golden bullet arrives at the headquarters of British intelligence with "007" engraved on it, the British believe that James Bond is the next target for international assassin Scaramanga. 007 is given the assignment to kill Scaramanga before he kills Bond and collects his $1,000,000 fee. Bond must find the missing "Solex Agitator," a device that will harness the sun's radiation and give awesome power to whomever possesses it. But, also vying for the prize, is Francisco Scaramanga, a world-class assassin who brandishes a distinctive golden gun. When 007 discovers he is to be Scaramanga's next target, he is hurled into a deadly game of cat-and-mouse, continuing the search as he evades the killer on his trail. Bond must also contend with Scaramanga's exotic lover, Andrea Anders, and Nick Nack, whose small size belies his lethal abilities. Even as 007 enlists the aid of sensuous Mary Goodnight, he must overcome ferocious odds to survive an explosive showdown on Scaramanga's remote island.

