The Games Maker

 At the age of seven, Iván Drago enters a Games Making competition initiated by the Deep Games Co, a mysterious Corporation headquartered on the ocean liner SS Napoleon. From that moment on, his passion and talent for the creation of games is harnessed. Five years later Ivan is honored as the winner of the enigmatic contest, the secret prize revealed to be a common transfer, a simile tattoo that Iván reluctantly applies. Over time, it will become an indelible mark associated with destiny, intrigue and adventure. Unexpectedly orphaned, following the mysterious disappearance of his parents during a hot air balloon race, Iván is sent to live at the exotic Possum School. Overwhelmed by the severe and dark environment, hope returns for Iván when he receives a secret message from his grandfather, Nicolás Dragó. This revelation motivates him to plan his escape from Possum by way of a Treasure Hunt organized by the little games genius, sinking the enormous building for good. Imbued with anticipation, Ivan travels by train to meet with his grandfather in the mythical town of Zyl, birthplace of extraordinary inventors and the most gifted games. Unfortunately, Ivan finds a town that has languished into a state of profound decay, and begins to understand that his tattoo is directly linked to Zyl's tragedy through its former citizen, Morodian, creator of the Deep Games Company. The enigma of the missing piece of the puzzle, suspicions about his parent's accident, Morodian's true identity and his real intention; these are mysteries that can only be unveiled from within the corridors of the Profound Games Co.... a quest that Iván Dragó must pursue to succeed in the greatest challenge of his life The story follows the life of its protagonist, Ivan, a young boy of twelve years old who has a prodigious talent for the invention of games, through worlds filled with originality and imagination, with fascinating characters that transcend any specific geographical location or particular Ethnic group.

