The Hunting Party

 A young journalist, a seasoned cameraman and a discredited war correspondent embark on an unauthorized mission to find the no. 1 war criminal in Bosnia; they find themselves in serious jeopardy when they are mistaken as a CIA hit squad and their target decides to come after them. After discrediting himself, ace Journalist, Simon Hunt, stops appearing on the U.S. National media, leaving his assistant, Duck, to be promoted. Now years later Duck, along with Franklin Harris and Benjamin Strauss, the son of the Network's Vice-President, have landed in Bosnia during the fall of 2000, 5 years after the Bosnian war. It is here that Duck will get to meet Simon, who will convince him to join him to hunt down war criminal Boghdanovic, who is on the most wanted list and carrying a 5 million dollar reward for systemically killing tens and thousands of Muslims (ethnic cleansing). Duck and Benjamin join Simon and journey out of Bosnia to travel to Montenegro. It is here they will meet with UN Official, Eknath Bharwani, who is not even aware of indictment details for Boghdanovic, and is quite content following instructions to not go anywhere near the last known location of the culprit. The trio will soon find out that the UN, NATO, The Hague, CIA amongst others are not only intent on keeping this war criminal's whereabouts a secret, but will oppose anyone who even tries to locate him. The trio find themselves in a soup when Boghdanovic and his henchman, a Psycho who has a tattoo on his forehead, find them and begin torturing them as they suspect them of being CIA Agents. The question remains who will come to their rescue? In 1995, the reckless but efficient war correspondent Simon Hunt and his cameraman Duck are covering the war in Bosnia. After a massacre in a Muslin village, Simon has a meltdown live on TV; he is fired and discredited by the network and disappears in the world of journalism while Duck is promoted, working for the famous anchor Franklin Harris. Five years later, while covering the peace in Bosnia with Franklin and the son of the network's VP Benjamin Strauss, Duck is visited by Simon who convinces his friend to chase the most wanted war criminal Boghdanovic a.k.a. The Fox, who has a five million dollar reward, for an interview. Ben joins the group in a journey to Celebici, in the border of Republic Srpska and Montenegro. However, Simon discloses the real intention of their hunting while they are mistaken as a CIA hit squad getting into serious trouble.

