The Wedding in Monaco

 The Principality of Monaco, probably the smallest sovereign state in all the world, is home to 4,000 Monegasques and 16,000 other foreign nationals. With her marriage to 'Prince Rainier of Monaco' (qv), 'Grace Kelly (I)' (qv) will not only become the Princess of Monaco, but will also acquire a multitude of other royal titles matching those of her husband. The wedding itself is only one part of the event's festivities, which is to be a celebration of arts, culture and nationalism in honor of the royal couple. The planning and execution must be perfect in the eyes of the Monegasques. The flowers adorning the celebration will include a newly bred carnation called the Princess Grace. The day before the wedding, the bride arrives in Monaco aboard the SS Constitution, which is met by the Prince aboard his yacht. In port, they are met by a throng of well wishing onlookers. A smaller civil ceremony, which follows strict protocols of the royal house and which is held at the Royal Palace, is completed on April 18, 1956 at 11 royal court and a music and dancing gala at the opera house. A larger, more lavish religious ceremony is held the following day in the Cathedral of Monaco. The honeymoon departure on the royal yacht that day is also a public spectacle. By most accounts, the realities of the celebration match the pre-event fantasies. April, 1956. Monaco celebrates the wedding of Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier. Preparations are under way in this principality of 4,000 citizens and 16,000 foreign residents. The U.S. Constitution comes to port; Ms. Kelly disembarks onto the Prince's yacht. That evening, she walks the state rooms of the palace. In the morning, a civil ceremony precedes a party for the nation on the palace grounds. That evening, dancers entertain the royal couple before their nuptial Mass. The next day, the city's populace cheers as a motorcade takes the couple to the yacht for their honeymoon. Protocol, tradition, and love combine; beauty and pageantry, heretofore only imagined, become real.

