The Stone

 In the UK's most haunted location, a group of seekers arrive to find the truth about life after death. They uncover much more than they bargained for. Very quickly they unearth an ancient stone artefact that shines a mirror upon their souls. Filmed on location at Annesley Hall in Nottinghamshire and once the home of Lord Byron, this film is a paranormal thriller in true British fashion. Featuring real British Druids filmed on location at Stonehenge and a host of British authors and musicians. At one of England's most haunted locations, a group of seekers are intent on harnessing the occult enlightenment of the ancients in-order to learn the truth about life after death and to set souls free. They uncover an ancient artifact, releasing an awesome power from ages past. Once inside this terrifying realm, the seekers confront their deepest fears and attempt to save themselves from mankind's darkest and most ancient enemy. They soon discover there is no escape from the Stone. In the UK's most haunted location, once residence to the mad Lord Byron, a group of seekers arrive hoping to find the truth about life after death. They have been led to believe there is something in this place that can help them attain the occult enlightenment of the ancients. Uncovering a centuries old stone artifact, they are inspired to invoke the spirits of the dead but instead, they manifest a dark mirror upon their own souls. Confronted by their deepest horrors, the seekers encounter far more than they bargained for, foolishly entering a realm of which there is no escape. From a dark and ancient past, comes the oldest enemy man has ever known, it leaves no soul unturned. You cannot escape The Stone. Filmed on location at Annesley Hall in Nottinghamshire England, this film is a British paranormal thriller in true Hammer fashion. In the UK's most haunted location, once residence to the mad Lord Byron, a group of seekers arrive hoping to find the truth about life after death. They have been led to believe there is something in this place that can help them attain the occult enlightenment of the ancients. Uncovering a centuries old stone artifact, they are inspired to invoke the spirits of the dead but instead, they manifest a dark mirror upon their own souls. Confronted by their deepest horrors, the seekers encounter far more than they bargained for, foolishly entering a realm of which there is no escape. From a dark and ancient past, comes the oldest enemy man has ever known, it leaves no soul unturned. You cannot escape The Stone. Filmed on location at Annesley Hall in Nottinghamshire England, this film is a British paranormal thriller in true Hammer fashion.

