The Mist

 Everyone thought of it as a harmless lightning storm. When Dave Drayton notices a strange mist on the lake, he thinks nothing of it. When his son, Billy Drayton, his neighbor Brent Norton, and himself travel to the supermarket, the unthinkable happens. On their way to the market, they see the army, the firefighters, and the police, heading toward the mist. When he sees this Brent mentions something about "Project Arrowhead", a secret military plan that no one knows about. As they are shopping, they see three army men walk in, just to pick up a few things then head toward the mist. All eighty of the store's shoppers had no clue what was going on until an old man runs in the market with a bloody nose and declares "Something in the mist!" He tells them to close the door. About five seconds after they do close the door, the entire store shakes, as though it was lifted feet above the ground. When David is asked to check on the generator, the loading dock door was being pushed by something outside. Then there was a groan heard by Dave. He asks three people to come with him. When Norm the bag-boy volunteers to go out, he is taken by a creature with large squid-like tentacles that have mouths, teeth, and arms of their own. When Dave and the other three fight it off, they alarm everyone in the store what is out there. After hearing this, Mrs. Carmody exclaims that it is the end of times and that God is punishing them. People don't believe it until Mrs. Carmody has almost everyone in the store on her side. Does 'Project Arrowhead' have anything to do with this? Will Dave Drayton, his son, and his friends make it out alive as they make their last stand against this destruction? Or will they be taken by the demon-like creatures of 'The Mist'? After a violent storm attacks a town in Maine, an approaching cloud of mist appears the next morning. As the mist quickly envelops the area, a group of people get trapped in a local grocery store -among them, artist David Drayton and his five-year-old son. The people soon discover that within the mist lives numerous species of horrific, unworldly creatures that entered through an inter-dimensional rift, which may or may not have been caused by a nearby military base. As the world around them manifests into a literal hell-on-earth, the horrified citizens try desperately to survive this apocalyptic disaster. After a strong storm in the Maine area, the local artist Dave Drayton drives from his house nearby the lake to the supermarket with his son Billy and his arrogant neighbor, the lawyer Brent Norton, to get supplies. Along their way, they see a heavy mist and later, military convoys, police and firefighter trucks, ambulances heading toward it. While in the supermarket, a frantic bleeding local arrives crying that there is something alive in the mist and the manager closes the entrance door while the place is encased by the mist. When David, another client and two employees go to the back of the store to start the generator, they open the back-door and the cashier Norm (Chris Owen) is hold and dragged by fierce tentacles. David and the two survivors succeed to close the loading door, and when they tell the people what happened, Brent does not trust on his words and believes it is a prank and the God-fearing woman Mrs. Carmody preaches the Apocalypse and that she is the vessel of Lord on Earth. Sooner the group discovers that they are under siege of blood thirsty creatures from another dimension that have reached our planet through a window open by a failed military research. Further, the crazy Mrs. Carmody has many followers and is becoming dangerous and dangerous in her speeches. Without alternative, a small group leaded by David decides to take the chance to escape from the supermarket and reach his car, hoping to get out of the mist.

