The Call of the Open Range

 Out on one of the wild and desolate plateaus in the Rocky Mountains, Jim Warner, an old '49-er, lived with his family. Ed Warner, his oldest son, is dissatisfied with his isolated life. When alone and looking down in the valleys below, with its herds of grazing cattle and merry, racing cowboys, his soul is filled with longing to mingle with and be one of them. Bidding his parents good-bye, he starts down the trail, to the open range below. He appears at the 2 U Ranch and asks employment of the foreman. The cowboys are inclined to laugh at the mountaineer, and the foreman employs him, more for the diversion he expects to get than for actual need of his services. Mamie Marvin, the ranchman's daughter, is impressed with the manly looking mountaineer. However, the foreman is in love with Mamie, and when he sees the admiring glances she gives his new employee, he becomes jealous, and addressing a sneering remark to her, he grasps her arm in an authoritative way. The insult is so obvious the mountaineer cannot disregard it, and he fells the bully with one well-directed blow. Turning to Miss Marvin he escorts her from the premises. The foreman, angered and humiliated, swears to be even with the mountaineer, and taking the pay sack he has received that morning, he places it in the mountaineer's pack. Then he notifies the boys that the money has been stolen. Ed and Mamie return while he is telling the boys, and the treacherous foreman searches the mountaineer's pack, finding the money where he has placed it. This is enough evidence for the hotheaded cowboys, and making Ed prisoner they secure him to a tree, and then return to the corral for their horses to go and notify the sheriff. In the meantime the quick-witted ranch girl releases all the horses from the corral, except her own, and when the cowboys return for them she releases their prisoner, and taking him on her own horse is started on the way to his mountain home. The cowboys are forced to follow on foot. The angry cowboys follow him into a pocket in the mountains and close in on him. With shouts of victory, the cowboys press closer to the helpless man. Meanwhile, Miss Marvin has gained the plateau, and hurrying to Ed's home, she informs his father and brothers of what has taken place. Will they get to the mountains in time?

