The Constant Gardener

 In a remote area of Northern Kenya, activist Tessa Quayle is found brutally murdered. Tessa's companion, a doctor, appears to have fled the scene, and the evidence points to a crime of passion. Members of the British High Commission in Nairobi assume that Tessa's widower, their mild-mannered and unambitious colleague Justin Quayle, will leave the matter to them. They could not be more wrong. Haunted by remorse and jarred by rumors of his late wife's infidelities, Quayle surprises everyone by embarking on a personal odyssey that will take him across three continents. Using his privileged access to diplomatic secrets, he will risk his own life, stopping at nothing to uncover and expose the truth - a conspiracy more far-reaching and deadly than Quayle could ever have imagined. Justin Quayle is an English gentle diplomat who is sent to the Kenyan Embassy to work. He takes his wife Tessa, who is an impulsive woman that he met in a conference. Tessa is a tenacious activist that fights for the rights of the poor people and she helps Doctor Arnold Bluhm. Tessa finds out accidentally that a powerful pharmacist firm (3 Bees) is trialling a new drug amongst the Africans. Tessa is more involved in the matter and she decides to ask Sandy, Justin's friend, for help because she don't want to involve to her husband. Tessa is murdered in a trip to the north of Kenya and the authority try to accuse Arnold of the crime. Justin, with a passion for gardening, decides to uncover the truth behind the death of his wife - with no regards for the consequences. After his wife is murdered in Kenya, Justin Quayle, a mild, low-level diplomat and a constant gardener, must investigate his wife's death, their relationship, and his own heart. In flashbacks, we see them meet, marry, and fall in love; we follow her in the teeming streets and clinics of Nairobi, usually accompanying Arnold Bluhm, a Black doctor with whom she spent the night before her murder, and who, after robbers, is the prime suspect. In his own investigation, Justin must not quail as he faces his memories, his colleagues, local police, hired thugs, and a nasty corporate CEO. Help and connections, as well as conspiracies, come from unexpected places. Murder will out. British diplomat Justin Quayle meets the impulsive activist Tessa, marries her quickly at her behest and takes her on diplomatic mission in Kenya. When Tessa is brutally murdered, Justin decides to investigate her death against the strong wish of his superiors to let the matter quietly disappear. He discovers a powerful mystery involving the members of the British High Commission and the not-so-savory business practices of the multi-billion dollar pharmaceutical industry. In the process of learning the secrets of his powerful enemies, Justin must learn all of his wife's many secrets as well.

