The Asphalt Jungle

 'Doc' Riedenschneider, legendary crime 'brain' just out of prison, has a brilliant plan for a million-dollar burglary. To pull it off, he recruits safecracker Louis, driver Gus, financial backer Emmerich, and strong-arm man Dix Handley. At first the plan goes like clockwork, but little accidents accumulate and each partner proves to have his own fatal weakness. In the background is a pervasive, grimy urban malaise. Doc Erwin Riedenschneider has just been released from prison and immediately seeks out financial backing for a heist which he has been plotting, the robbery of a jewellery store. He puts together a group of men consisting of Dix Handley, a tough guy, Gus, a bar owner and Louis Ciavelli, a family man. The robbery is a success and Dix and Doc take the jewels to their buyer, Alonzo 'Lon' Emmerich. Unfortunately, Emmerich does not have the money for them; he was hoping to be able to coerce the group into giving him the jewels under the false pretence of fencing them. He would then be able to sell them himself with the help of his business partner, Bob Brannom... Doc Riedenschneider is renowned in the crime world for being meticulous in the planning of his capers. Just released from jail, he has what he considers his final caper mapped out, after which he plans on retiring to Mexico City. A jewel heist, he estimates the take will be in excess of $1 million, enough for his retirement plus the payment to all those involved. It will require the assistance of a few men, one of whom is to be the financier. He turns to lawyer Lon Emmerich for the money, trusting his associate bookie, Cobby, on Emmerich's ability to do the job. Doc also enlists a small time hood, Dix Handley, who he meets at Cobby's betting parlor, to be one of the men to carry out the actual heist. Although he counts on the money from Emmerich, he doesn't really trust him. As the heist is carried out, its execution is not according to Doc's meticulous plan. As each individual makes his escape with Doc holding the loot, the police are on their tail. The crosses and double crosses between each of those individuals, who are ultimately out to protect themselves and their own sense of what is important to them, may make the fragile relationships between the crooks and thus the heist fall apart.

