The Making of Michael Lucas' 'Dangerous Liaisons'

 Turning the gay adult industry on its cock-eyed (cock-heavy?) ear, Michael Lucas' Dangerous Liaisons quickly became one of the most-talked about gay porns of 2005. Purportedly one of the most expensive endeavors of its type ever, Lucas' adaptation of Choderlos de Laclos' thrice-filmed classic novel "Les Liaisons Dangereuses" updates the action to today's New York fashion world. Taking the already deliciously nasty scenario to even tastier levels, the sexual tension and antics that were only alluded to in previous incarnations are now played out for viewers in gloriously nasty, fully-hardcore sexual trysts. But what really raised eyebrows were the high-profile non-porn personalities who popped up in the film Lepore, Boy George, Bruce Vilanch, Graham Norton, Hedda Lettuce, Lady Bunny, The Village Voice's Michael Musto and RuPaul all make appearances (thankfully in non-sexual roles -- sorry, Bunny!). The gamble paid off film was an instant smash with critics as well as with porn-fiends everywhere, garnering the year's most GayVN Award nominations (13) and scoring four, including nods for its killer screenplay, Best Supporting Actor Kent Larson and a tie for Best Picture of the Year. Here now is your chance to go behind-the-scenes and see not only the creation of this sizzling flick, but also hear from the participants and industry elite. You'll hear insightful and witty (and uproariously filthy) comments from such luminaries as the irrepressible Bruce Vilanch, Lady Bunny, RuPaul, and glamazon Amanda Lapore, as well the film's cavalcade of drop-dead gorgeous (and frequently fully naked) lead actors. Some of the best lines are delivered by Mr. Lucas himself, whose refreshingly candid and self deprecating delivery is sure to win over even non-fans. Make no mistake, though -- there's plenty of fully explicit flesh on display here. This World Premiere will be followed by a panel discussion to be moderated by Michael Musto. Also scheduled to appear live and in person will be Bruce Vilanch, Michael Lucas, porn star (and cast member) J., Matthew Roberts and other surprise guests.

