The Courageous Avenger

 Kirk Baxter has been sent to investigate murder and robbery involving gold shipments. Identifying a gang member by his bullets, he uses that man's horse to locate and join the gang. He learns the gang is tipped off to the shipments by a mine employee using carrier pigeons. But the next message reveals his true identity and he is made a prisoner. Gold shipments from the Davis mine are constantly being held up, by a gang led by Gorman and the sheriff's best efforts to trail the gang to their secret desert hideout are in vain. There are several men held prisoner at the came and forced to labor at ore-crushing. Lawman Kirk Baxter is assigned to the case by Marshal Taggart. Kirk's sweetheart, Betty Stonewell, is the step-daughter of the Davis mine superintendent, Carson, who is secretly working with Gorman by using carrier pigeons to send messages when gold is to be shipped. Kirk suspects Carson but Davis trusts him. Betty's brother Dick has already lost his life in an encounter with Gorman's men and since his death, she has been treated badly by Carson. Kirk cathes him abusing her, beats Carson up in a fight and sends Betty by stagecoach to live with his aunt. The stage is held up and Betty kidnapped, and Kirk locates the bandit lair and at first succeeds in passing himself off to Gorman as a recruit for the gang. But his identity as a lawman is revealed and Kirk is made a prisoner. Gorman rides with his gang to intercept a new shipment of gold, but this time Davis accompanies the shipment and forces Carson to come along as driver. Kirk overcomes his guard, frees Betty and the other prisoners and he and a former stage driver held prisoner ride to intercept the bandit attack. They arrive ahead of the outlaws and Kirk forces Carson to drive straight into the heart of the outlaw ambush. As the outlaws attack, Kirk and his friends open fire on them. Gorman, thinking Carson has double-crossed him, kills him. Betty arrives with the sheriff and his posse, and Kirk rides after Gorman when he attempts to escape and captures him.

