The Rocketeer

 Straight from the pages of a pulp comic from a past era, the Rocketeer recreates 1930's Hollywood, complete with gangsters, Nazi spies, and the growth of the Age of Aviation. Young pilot Cliff Secord stumbles on a top secret rocket-pack and with the help of his mechanic/mentor, Peevee, he attempts to save his girl and stop the Nazis as The Rocketeer. Pilot Cliff finds a rocket pack that allows man to fly. Bad guy Neville Sinclair also wants the rocket pack to give to the Nazis, and tries to get hold of Cliff's girl, Jenny to trade. In 1938, in Los Angeles, the pilot Cliff Secord crashes his plane after being hit in the air in a shoot-out between gangsters and FBI agents in a car chase; completely broken, his best friend and mechanics A. 'Peevy' Peabody tries to fix an old plane to raise some money in an exhibition show. However, Cliff finds a package hidden by one of the gangsters with a rocket with belts and they find that the device allows man to fly. Meanwhile, his beloved girlfriend and aspirant actress Jenny Blake succeeds in an audition to make a small part in a movie of the great actor Neville Sinclair that is ranked the third in box-offices. During a flight exhibition, the mechanic Malcolm (Eddie Jones) has an accident, and Cliff uses the rocket to save him, being called Rocketeer by the public. With his picture in the front page of the newspaper, Cliff is chased by the FBI, the gangsters and German spies that abduct Jenny and forces Cliff to rescue her. In the years leading up to World War II, stunt pilot Cliff Secord takes a trial run in a Gee Bee racing aircraft to prepare for an upcoming air show. But he accidentally comes into possession of a rocket-propelled backpack much coveted by the Nazis. With the aid of his mechanic pal, he gets it up and running, then uses it to foil a plot by a gang of vicious Nazi spies led by Timothy Dalton. Jennifer Connelly is on hand as the love interest, but the real fun here is when the Rocketeer takes off. There's also a nifty battle atop an airborne blimp to defeat his foes who are anxious to use the device in an evil plan to rule the world! The dangerous mission transforms the ordinary young man into an extraordinary hero.

