The Night Can Be Measured

 The Night Can Be Measured - Based on a True Story Tupelo, Mississippi 1951 Paige Dunn, a compassionate, young nurse contracts polio at age 22 while pregnant. She is left paralyzed from her head down, but against all odds survives delivering her baby from an iron lung. Paige insists on raising her daughter Diana, even though her husband leaves her when he finds out that there is no chance of recovery. In the summer of 1964, Paige and the now 13-year-old Diana work miracles from their Tupelo home. Since Paige requires round-the-clock nursing care that social services barely cover, Diana has taken over the night shift to save them money. She shares her mother's care with no-nonsense African-American day worker Peacie, who is protective of Paige and unforgiving of Diana's adolescent yearning for freedom. Paige is a paragon of kindness, inspiration and wisdom, even in the face of less-than-charitable charity by petty small-town residents, while Diana and Peacie consistently lock horns. There is pure magic in how these characters deal with the hardship surrounding them, and each demonstrates what it takes to rise above one's circumstances. Trouble follows when Peacie's boyfriend, LaRue, ventures down the perilous path of helping register black voters during this Freedom Summer, and threatens to tear all of them apart. The surprising finale is an inspirational wake up call for all of us. Full of humor and devoid of self-pity, this story is an account of accepting adult responsibilities, encountering temptations and experiencing the tensions between race and class in the 1960s. Above all, the true account chronicles the amazing journey of a courageous woman who risks everything and follows her dreams. Based on a true story, set in Tupelo, Mississippi in 1964 contracted polio at 22 while pregnant, Paige Dunn delivers her baby from an iron lung. Even though her husband divorces her shortly thereafter, Paige insists on raising her daughter Diana. Able to move only her head, Paige requires round-the clock nursing care, but in comparison to many of the petty small town characters, lives a life fuller than most. Now 13, Diana is sharing her mother's care with no-nonsense African-American day worker Peacie. But when Peacie's boyfriend, LaRue, ventures down the perilous path of helping register black voters during Freedom Summer, trouble follows and nearly breaks all of them apart.

