The Nightmare Before Christmas

 It's been a year since Jack Skellington defeated his arch-nemesis, Oogie Boogie. Jack must battle bizarre and vicious enemies in order to stop the diabolical Oogie Boogie from successfully kidnapping the leaders of all the holidays (like Santa Claus of Christmas Town, Easter Bunny of Easter Town, Cupid of Valentine Day Town, St. Patrick of St. Patrick's Day Town, a Pilgrim from Thanksgiving Town, and a Patriot from Independence Day Town), and establishing himself as king and turning himself into a gigantic, junk-filled version of himself named Mega-Oogie. Armed with the amazing "Soul Robber" and the ability to transform into other forms, it's all up to Jack as he will have to use everything at his disposal to defeat this evil plan before Oogie Boogie attempts to murder Santa Clause once again! It's been a year after the events in the original film, The Nightmare Before Christmas. After an improved, but all too familiar Halloween night, Jack Skellington, the Pumpkin King of Halloween Town, decides to go on an adventure and find some new and original chills and thrills for next Halloween. When Jack returns to town after a few weeks, he sees that everything is not as it was before he left. When Jack left, Lock, Shock, and Barrel resurrected Jack's old enemy, Oogie Boogie, and together fooled the people of Halloween Town that Jack left town out of disgust, and won't return till they make a new, more dangerous Halloween. The townsfolk, believing Oogie's lies, helped build traps all over Halloween Town, and even Dr. Finklestien helped by making an army of dangerous ghouls and creeps for Oogie to command. Now in control of Halloween Town, Oogie sent his henchmen to the other holidays worlds, to capture their leaders (the Easter Bunny, Cupid, etc.) so that Oogie could rule ALL the holidays. The fate of not just Halloween, but all the holidays now lie in Jack's hands. "The Nightmare Before Christmas Burton's stop-motion masterpiece, "The Nightmare Before Christmas". It picks up right where the original movie left off, just after the defeat of the evil Oogie Boogie. The game starts with Lock, Shock and Barrel -Boogie's mischievous little henchmen- plotting to bring their beloved master Boogie back from the grave. And upon hearing about this, Jack Skellington -Pumpkin King of Halloween Town- heads to the Dr. Finklestein for help. Finklestein, smart as he is, gives Jack a weapon... A weapon he calls the "Soul Robber". Jack must use this weapon to stop Boogie and his reign over Halloween Town... But he has to hurry. The town's people are all missing (Sally included) and Boogie's monsters are running amok. Now it's up to Jack to stop the monsters, find the town's folk and Sally, and ultimately stop the evil Boogey man from causing the world any more damage...

