The Thomas Crown Affair

 Self-made billionaire Thomas Crown is bored of being able to buy everything he desires. Being irresistible to women, he also does not feel any challenge in that area. But there are a few things even he can't get, therefore Thomas Crown has a seldom hobby of Art. After the theft of a famous painting from Claude Monet, the only person suspecting Thomas Crown is Catherine Banning. Her job is to get the picture back, no matter how she accomplishes her mission. Unfortunately, Catherine gets involved too deeply with Thomas to keep a professional distance to the case. Fortunately, Thomas seems to fall for her, too. A multi millionaire playboy Thomas Crown steals a priceless painting from an art gallery and finds out an insurance investigator Catherine Banning is onto him. They fall for each other but Catherine is unsure because Anna, a gorgeous young woman is always around him. They go to Martinique to be alone but after they come back Thomas wants them leave together. Catherine still isn't sure, will she trust him and will he be able to trust her and overcome his deepest fears? A bored multi-millionaire struggling to find new challenges arranges for the theft of a Monet painting from a museum. This sets a sexy insurance investigator after him, but unexpectedly the two fall in love. Does she keep her ethics and pin him for the crime she knows he committed or does she follow her heart? Things are complicated by a beautiful blonde that he keeps company with, when he is not with her. Competitive New York mergers and acquisitions king Thomas Crown steals a Monet for the challenge only to be fingered as the thief within two days by insurance investigator Catherine Banning who's smart, driven, and alone. Ostensibly she works with the police but in truth she runs her own show playing cat and mouse with Crown. Soon it's a romance ball, a glider flight, two days in Martinique. Back in Manhattan, she thinks she has reason to be jealous, so when he suggests they go off together, she hesitates. He may have more tricks up his sleeve and, as his psychiatrist has asked him, what would it take for him to trust a woman and, in turn, be trusted?

