The Trial of Ezra Pound

 An intellectual drama concerning America's most controversial poet. The Treason and Life-Long trial of America's Poet Laureate gone haywire! Interspersed between interrogation are flashes from his life. An intellectual drama concerning America's most controversial poet. The guru to T.S. Eliot, Frost, Fitzgerald, Hemingway, Ginsburg and more was a seriously flawed intellectual giant; his fears of conspiracies, secret societies and Jewish banker cabals caused him to make pro-Fascist broadcasts during WWII. This story addresses mankind's chronic problem with popular delusions and theories, based upon inaccurate knowledge and racial, religious, and conspiracy fear that plague society. This is the story of America's most controversial poet and critic. He was tried for treason after WWII for his pro-Fascist broadcasts made during the war, found not guilty, but remanded to a prison hospital for twelve years just the same. An intellectual drama concerning America's most controversial poet. The Treason and Life-Long trial of America's Poet Laureate gone haywire! Interspersed between interrogation are flashes from his life. An intellectual drama concerning America's most controversial poet. The guru to T.S. Eliot, Frost, Fitzgerald, Hemingway, Ginsburg and more was a seriously flawed intellectual giant; his fears of conspiracies, secret societies and Jewish banker cabals caused him to make pro-Fascist broadcasts during WWII. This story addresses mankind's chronic problem with popular delusions and theories, based upon inaccurate knowledge and racial, religious, and conspiracy fear that plague society. This is the story of America's most controversial poet and critic. He was tried for treason after WWII for his pro-Fascist broadcasts made during the war, found not guilty, but remanded to a prison hospital for twelve years just the same. Although he was unjustly incarcerated for an act he did not commit, he got his moral comeuppance for his Fascist and Anit-Semitic leanings. The focus is on his life in Italy as an American during WWII, living under the same roof with his wife Dorothy, as well as his paramour (for the same length as his marriage) Olga Rudge. The trial is used throughout as well as his time in the hospital prison, where he became a guru to young poets, Allan Ginsberg for one. It was during his imprisonment that Pound won the Bolligen Prize for Poetry for The Pisan Cantos, his monumental work written while in The American Army Disciplinary Center in Pisa, after he was captured at the end of the European Campaign. Ezra was arrested in Rapallo by the Americans and British, tried in Washington, and remanded to a prison hospital until Ernest Hemingway and Robert Frost helped get him out. Although adjudged not guilty, his Anti-Semitic and Fascist concepts, and especially his hatred for President Roosevelt, so went against the U.S. government they put him away guilty or not! This is a story for the new millennium . . . now that popular delusions and conspiracy theories abound . . . just watch the controversy this film will create!

