The Challenge of the 91 Freeway

 "Challenge of the 91 Freeway" is dedicated to exploring and explaining the cross-county plans to upgrade the routinely congested 91 Freeway. Pat Haslam, best known in OC as "Dr. Drive," hosts this live television special at the KOCE-TV Studios in Huntington Beach. The live one-hour panel discussion gathers experts from the Orange County Transportation Authority (OCTA), Riverside County Transportation Commission (RCTC), as well as city government and engineers to explain changing traffic demands on the two counties' clogged main artery, and discuss upgrades on the horizon. Traffic Congestion in OC / Inland Empire Everyday, thousands of motorists from Orange and Riverside Counties rely on the 91 Freeway. However, as both counties have grown, the 91 has remained stagnant - without expansion or revision since the express lanes opened in 1995. Riverside / San Bernardino County commuters now spend the longest time in the entire nation commuting to work at 31.2 minutes. Average commute time in Orange County is 21.9 minutes - fourth longest in the nation. A two-county process to fix the 91 Freeway is now underway. Experts from both counties are currently involved in planning, designing and improving the 91. Experts expect these efforts to increase the capacity of the 91 and improve the quality of life for thousands of Inland Empire and OC residents. Panelists and Host Pat Haslam, host and producer, has been a fixture on the traffic pulse of Southern California for more than a decade, recently as traffic anchor and currently as news anchor of radio station KNX 1070. He hosts Transportation Tuesdays on KOCE-TV. Anne Mayer from the Riverside County Transportation Commission (RCTC). Mayer is currently the deputy executive director for the RCTC. Mike Perovich is the District 8 Director of Cal Trans. Perovich was one of the resident engineers responsible for the design and construction of the elevated carpool lanes on the Harbor 110 Freeway. Frank West, long time resident of Moreno Valley, was appointed Mayor of the City of Moreno Valley in 2004 and now serves as a City Councilman. He represents Moreno Valley as a Commissioner of RCTC. Bill Campbell is Supervisor of Orange County's Third District and a member of OCTA's board of directors, where he serves on the 91 Freeway advisory committee. Paul Taylor is deputy CEO of OCTA. He is responsible for planning, engineering and constructing all transportation programs and projects in Orange County, including highways, commuter rail, and multi-modal corridor improvements.

