The Lake House

 When two people "connect" the bond between them can be so pure and simple as to stir hearts in heaven. When they connect in all the right places at all the wrong times, heaven weeps for broken hearts. To heal these broken hearts, heaven breaks time. Kate Forster is moving out from her lake house, built all of it with glass. She is a doctor and has just begin to work in a hospital in Chicago, moving to a new flat in the center of the city. Alex Wyler is the new owner of the lake house, a young architect who's working in the construction of a new complex of houses at the city skirts. Alex and Kate are maintaining a correspondence, talking about the house matters, sending each other letters, which are put in the lake house's letter box. But a strange thing is happening, because both of them find out that the letter box is working as a kind of time communication channel, between the year 2004, where Alex's living, and 2006, the year that Kate's actually living. After sending each other many letters talking about their lives, and Kate talking to Alex about how life will be in two years, it seems like they're falling in love each other. But maybe they will never meet each other, because of the time distance. Nevertheless, Kate comes up with a memory from 2004, when she forgot a book in a train station, Jane Austen's "Persuasion", and she'll ask Alex to go to that place in that precise moment, when she lost the book. Maybe the future of Kate is about to change, when Alex decides to meet Kate's other self in the past, despite the fact that she has a boyfriend. They will learn that playing with time could be a little bit dangerous for both of them, but Alex will take everything into his hands to finally meet Kate in the future. In Chicago, the lonely architect Alex Wyler has a troubled relationship with his father Simon Wyler. In 2004, he buys an old glass house in a lake, designed and built by his father, and he finds a message in his mailbox from the former tenant, the also lonely Dr. Kate Forster, asking to deliver her correspondence in an address downtown. Alex meets his brother Henry in Chicago and when they go to the address with Dr. Forster's correspondence, they find a building of luxury apartments under construction to be delivered eighteen months later. After some messages, Alex and Kate disclose that she is living in 2006 and Alex in 2004, they fall in love for each other and they try to find means to meet each other. Dr. Kate Forster works in a hospital in Chicago. She has had issues with relating to people in a deeply emotional level. Alex Wyler is a social developer and architect. At different times, they both lived in the same glass house on a lake built by Alex's father. The two begin a correspondence purely on chance when Kate leaves a note in the mailbox of the lake house asking for the new tenant to forward her mail to her new address in the city. Alex gets this message, however he gets it two years prior when he himself lived in the lake house. When the two discover that they are indeed corresponding through time through the time warped mailbox, they learn more about each other. They manage to spend time together through common experiences two years apart. The more they correspond, the deeper the bond between the two. They end up falling in love. Kate has the benefit of being able to tell Alex of what happens in the future. Alex has the benefit of being able to experience things that Kate has experienced in the past. He even has a chance to meet her before she knew him. Kate devises a plan to meet in her present/Alex's future so that they can spend their life together at the same time. However much can happen to Alex between his present and Kate's present, two years in his future.

