The Vacant House

 John and Kathy Burns have finally move from their cramped apartment to a spacious new home. They are delighted, though somewhat mystified, as to why the purchase price is so low. Despite their research and numerous inspections, there are no obvious flaws that they can find with the house. Their "moving day" happens to fall on Halloween, and unpacking is interrupted when six of their friends show up to "christen" the new house. In tow is "Floyd", a "medium" who has been hired to entertain everyone by conducting a "sEance". The sEance begins as a joke, but ends with guests revealing painful memories of their past. Later that evening, John and Kathy are awakened by a noise, and are shocked to discover that they apparently share their home with a ghost. Floyd is summoned to their home, and a private sEance reveals in a dream that the ghost is the spirit of a murdered woman, who may be buried somewhere on the property. After an exhausting search, inside and outside, the body of the dead woman is found. She is given a proper burial, and her spirit is released from the house. John and Kathy Burns have finally move from their cramped apartment to a spacious new home. They are delighted, though somewhat mystified, as to why the purchase price is so low. Despite their research and numerous inspections, there are no obvious flaws that they can find with the house. Their "moving day" happens to fall on Halloween, and unpacking is interrupted when six of their friends show up to "christen" the new house. In tow is "Floyd", a "medium" who has been hired to entertain everyone by conducting a "sEance". The sEance begins as a joke, but ends with guests revealing painful memories of their past. Later that evening, John and Kathy are awakened by a noise, and are shocked to discover that they apparently share their home with a ghost. Floyd is summoned to their home, and a private sEance reveals in a dream that the ghost is the spirit of a murdered woman, who may be buried somewhere on the property. After an exhausting search, inside and outside, the body of the dead woman is found. She is given a proper burial, and her spirit is released from the house. John and Kathy Burns have finally move from their cramped apartment to a spacious new home. They are delighted, though somewhat mystified, as to why the purchase price is so low. Despite their research and numerous inspections, there are no obvious flaws that they can find with the house. Their "moving day" happens to fall on Halloween, and unpacking is interrupted when six of their friends show up to "christen" the new house. In tow is "Floyd", a "medium" who has been hired to entertain everyone by conducting a "sEance". The sEance begins as a joke, but ends with guests revealing painful memories of their past. Later that evening, John and Kathy are awakened by a noise, and are shocked to discover that they apparently share their home with a ghost. Floyd is summoned to their home, and a private sEance reveals in a dream that the ghost is the spirit of a murdered woman, who may be buried somewhere on the property. After an exhausting search, inside and outside, the body of the dead woman is found. She is given a proper burial, and her spirit is released from the house.

