The Skeleton Key

 A young woman helping care for an invalid in New Orleans finds herself caught in the middle of morbid going-ons centered around a group of Hoodoo practitioners. (Hoodoo is not Voodoo, it's of a different culture. Voodoo is Haitian while Hoodoo is an old African American magic that just like Voodoo only works if you believe in it.) Caroline is a twenty-five-year-old hospice worker who cares for the ailing and the elderly, a job designed to atone for her own mistake for ignoring her dying father in the past, when she had been a rock 'n' roll manager. After her latest charge passes away, Caroline takes a job in Louisiana, caring for Ben, a stroke-victim who is bed-ridden and cannot speak. But Caroline becomes suspicious of the house, and Ben's cold wife, Violet only adds to the creepy atmosphere. After acquiring a skeleton key, Caroline makes her way into a secret room within the attic where she discovers hair, blood, bones, spells, and other instruments for practicing hoodoo. Violet says she has never been in the secret room, but that the items probably belonged to the original owners' two houseworkers, who practiced black magic and were lynched as a result. Noting that Ben had his stroke in the attic after entering the room, Caroline is determined to unlock the secrets of the house, and rescue Ben from the horrors that hold him captive within. The Skeleton Key is about a 25-year old girl who gets a job as a caretaker living in a plantation home in Terrebone Parish, Louisiana. She soon discovers the scary attic in the house, with all sorts of hoodoo recipes, spells, books, etc. She starts to investigate and question Violet, the owner of the house, about the secrets. But if she believes in what she discovers, it will all become real! The nurse Caroline Ellis decides to quit her job in a hospital and work for a family in the swamps of Terrebone Parish, Louisiana, one hour far from New Orleans. The family lawyer Luke hires her for US$ 1,000.00 per week to take care of Ben Devereaux, the beloved husband of Violet Devereaux, who had a stroke and is totally paralyzed. Violet gives a skeleton key of the huge house to Caroline, and the curious young woman finds a secret creepy hoodoo room in a scary attic that belonged to a couple of sorcerers that worked in the house. Caroline, who does not believe in magic, decides to learn about hoodoo, and believes Violet put an evil spell on Ben. She decides to help the invalid man, and asks for help to Luke.

