The Full Monty

 Six unemployed steel workers, inspired by the Chippendale's dancers, form a male striptease act. The women cheer them on to go for "the full monty" - total nudity. The setting is Sheffield England, once the "City of Steel", home of a massive steel industry and jobs aplenty. Today with the industry in decline and the steelworks closed down there is widespread unemployment and despair. Two unemployed friends stumble upon a Chippendales-like show that's very popular with the local women. Eventually they decide they too would like to give it a go, but they can't dance and aren't what most would call good physical specimens. They have their doubts but are determined to give it a shot. On their way they pick up four other unlikely candidates and begin practising for the big night. To drum up interest, they boast they'll go 'the full monty' (a phrase meaning 'all the way' - nude), something they hadn't planned and aren't sure they can deliver. Will they ?, won't they ?, can they keep their antics from their families ?, can they stay out of trouble ? can they pull a crowd ?. All will be revealed, well maybe. Sheffield, England. Once a bright community "on the move", the city has fallen into ruin after the steel factories are closed and thousands of men lose their jobs. Gary "Gaz" is a former worker and about to lose his son because he can't pay for joint custody. His friends (and former co-workers) aren't doing much better interested in their marriage anymore; Lomper has to take care of his mom and is suicidal; and Gerald has been lying to his wife for six months about his unemployment. After stumbling across a Chipendales dance club and seeing how many women are paying for it (ten quid times a thousand women equals... "a lot of money"), Gaz realizes that if they can do it, so can he. The guys pull together, adding Horse and Guy to the line-up. But Gaz realizes that they have to offer something that the "real thing" doesn't... so these guys are going "the full monty", which means going totally nude! They not be young, they not be pretty, they not be very good, but they're there, and for one night only, with nothing to lose, they're daring to go The Full Monty!

