The Rocky Horror Picture Show

 It's the weird and wonderful as newly engaged couple Brad and Janet encounter a problem when they car halts in the rain. They both look for contact only to find themselves at the castle of Dr. Frank-N-Furter a transvestite. A place to stay is offered, but will Brad and Janet want to remain there? Especially when a large group of Transylvanians dance to the 'Time Warp', Dr. Frank-N-Furter builds his own man and a whole host of participation for the audience to enjoy. After Janet accepts Brad's marriage proposal, the happy couple drive away from Denton, Ohio, only to get lost in the rain. They stumble upon the castle of Dr. Frank-N-Furter, a transvestite who is holding the annual convention of visitors from the planet Transsexual. Frank-N-Furter unveils his creation, a young man named Rocky Horror, who fears the doctor and rejects his sexual advances. When Frank-N-Furter announces that he is returning to the galaxy Transylvania, Riff Raff the butler and Magenta the maid declare that they have plans of their own. (An audience participation film) While driving home during a rain filled night, straight-laced lovebirds Brad and Janet, by chance, end up at the castle of one Dr. Frank-N-Furter and his strange and bizarre entourage, and find that he's having a party. This is no ordinary party, no ordinary night. This is the unveiling of the Dr's latest creation pleasure. This is an exceedingly grand visual and musical camp satire of the golden days of the B-movie horror and science-fiction genres. Projected along with a musical soundtrack to give "audience participation" a new meaning in dimension, time and space, this shall be a night that both Brad and Janet will remember for a very, very long time in the sexually kinky, rock 'n roll (f)rock-opera world of a gender-bending scientist...and his time warped plans. Brad and Janet, newly engaged, stumble onto the castle of Dr. Frank-N-Furter during a rainstorm. Taking refuge in the castle, they're present for the doctor's unveiling of his newest creation, Rocky. Over the course of the night, Frank seduces both Brad and Janet, Janet and Rocky become involved biblically, Dr. Everett Scott arrives looking for his son Eddie (whom Frank killed earlier in the film), and it all goes to pot when the guests discover that Frank is actually an alien (a transvestite from the planet Transsexual in the galaxy Transylvania) who's succeeded in creating the Sonic Transducer, "an audio-vibratory physiomolecular transport device" capable of "breaking down solid matter and then projecting it through space and, who knows, perhaps even time itself." A story of creation, love, hate, adventure, and, most of all, sex; the story begins in Denton, Ohio as Brad Majors and Janet Weiss, after getting engaged (Dammit Janet), travel to see "the man who began it," but wind up at the castle of Dr. Frank-N-Furter, a transvestite alien from the planet of Transsexual in the galaxy of Transylvania (Sweet Transvestite). And they meet Riff Raff, Magenta, and Columbia which leads to "doing the Time Warp again!" They discover they have been there on a "special night." Frank's creation is to be born! As Rocky has been revealed (Sword of Damocles / I Can Make You A Man), rebel Eddie, Frank's last-recent creation, ponders in on his motorcycle (Hot Patootie-Bless My Soul) whom Frank kills. In comes Dr. Everett Von Scott, he's come for Eddie (Eddie's Teddy) which results in the discovery of Eddie's deceased body. Frank chases Janet and Brad and Dr. Scott chase Frank (Planet Schmanet Janet), which results in everybody (but Frank) getting frozen. Enter the floor show (Rose Tint My World / Don't Dream It / Wild & Untamed Thing) which then turns into the horrifying death of both Frank and Columbia die and the castle's blasting off! Brad, Janet, and Dr. Scott survive and leave with torn clothes and battered bodies.

