The Matrix Reloaded

 6 months after the events depicted in The Matrix, Neo has proved to be a good omen for the free humans, as more and more humans are being freed from the matrix and brought to Zion, the one and only stronghold of the Resistance. Neo himself has discovered his superpowers including super speed, ability to see the codes of the things inside the matrix and a certain degree of pre-cognition. But a nasty piece of news hits the human resistance them in 72 hours. As Zion prepares for the ultimate war, Neo, Morpheus and Trinity are advised by the Oracle to find the Keymaker who would help them reach the Source. Meanwhile Neo's recurrent dreams depicting Trinity's death have got him worried and as if it was not enough, Agent Smith has somehow escaped deletion, has become more powerful than before and has fixed Neo as his next target. In this second adventure, Neo and the rebel leaders estimate that they have 72 hours until Zion falls under siege to the Machine Army. Only a matter of hours separates the last human enclave on Earth from 250,000 Sentinels programmed to destroy mankind. But the citizens of Zion, emboldened by Morpheus conviction that the One will fulfill the Oracles Prophecy and end the war with the Machines, rest all manner of hope and expectation on Neo, who finds himself stalled by disturbing visions as he searches for a course of action. Neo, Morpheus, Trinity, and the rest of their crew continue to battle the machines that have enslaved the human race in the Matrix. As their quest unfolds, Neo learns more about his super-heroic abilities, including the ability to see the codes of the people and things around him. Simultaneously, now, more humans are waking up out of the Matrix and attempting to live in the real world. As their numbers grow, the battle moves to Zion--the last real-world city and center of human resistance. Roughly six months after the original "Matrix", Neo begins to have nightmares about Trinity plunging to her death. Meanwhile, the rebels have returned to the city of Zion to learn that 250,000 sentinels are digging towards them in order to seek Zion and wipe out the human resistance. The Oracle gives Neo instructions to find the keymaker and seek out the source. If Neo fails the mission, then the rebellion will be crushed, and the machines will win the war. Some time after Neo is revealed to be "the One", the revolution has taken a drastic turn, as more and more minds are freed from the matrix. The machines, then, gather an immense army to destroy Zion once and for all. Morpheus and Neo eagerly await contact from the Oracle, whom they believe will tell them how to prevent this disaster. Meanwhile, Agent Smith has returned, having escaped deletion. Now a computer virus, he is able to infect anyone he touches, his only purpose is to destroy Neo. Now, to save Zion, the human race, and most of all the woman he loves, Neo, Morpheus and the other rebels must battle freakish program "exiles", new upgraded Agents, evil masterminds, and a mob of Agent Smith duplicates to reach the Source. But at the Source, Neo must learn the truth about the Matrix, a truth that shakes the very foundations of all that he has known. Zion is falling under siege from the machine army. In a matter of hours 250,000 Sentinels, programmed to destroy mankind, will attack and yet the citizens of Zion, encouraged by Morpheus, are placing their faith in The Oracle's prophecy that The One will end the machine war and restore peace. But can Neo live up to their expectations? He may have new powers, including the ability to fly, but his recurring visions of Trinity's death are jeopardising his chances whenever he's in The Matrix...

