The Spy Who Loved Me

 James Bond is back again and his new mission is to find out how a Royal Navy Polaris submarine holding sixteen nuclear warheads simply disappear whilst on patrol. Bond joins Major Anya Amasova and takes on a a web handed mastermind, known as Karl Stromberg, as well as his henchman Jaw, who contains a mouth of metal teeth. Bond must track down the locations of the missing submarine before the warheads are fired. The British discover that someone has perfected a way of tracking submerged submarines and is offering the technology to the highest bidder. An international crisis breaks when a Royal Navy Polaris submarine equipped with sixteen nuclear warheads disappears while on patrol. The British send agent James Bond to secure the tracking device and locate the missing vessel before its missiles are launched at the West. A shipping magnate, Karl Stromberg, has employed two brilliant scientists to develop a submarine tracking system. Once it is finished, he assures them of multimillion-dollar payouts to their Swiss bank accounts, but not before ruthlessly murdering his young assistant by dumping her into a tank inhabited by a man-eating tiger shark. Shortly afterward, British & Soviet submarines vanish while on routine moves, and Bond is called into action. Also called to duty is his Soviet counterpart, Major Anya Amasova. Though they are initially working against each other, the British Secret Service & KGB begin to work together to find the microfilm contains the tracking system. Bond & Anya must deal with Stromberg's goons who have been ordered to eliminate anyone who comes into contact with the microfilm. One of these is Jaws, a 7' towering Goliath with metal teeth. When a U.S. submarine is also hijacked, Bond & Anya must move quickly to avert World War 3, which Stromberg is hoping to start... Both the British and Russians are amazed when a submarine from each country disappears and the only link is a microfilm detailing the movements of the British submarine meaning that somehow a submarine can be tracked via it's "wake". The British sends agent James Bond and the Russians send Major Anya Amasova, otherwise known as "Triple-X". After first fighting against each other over the microfilm, the two agents are ordered to work together against the real enemy, mad shipping billionaire Carl Stromberg who plans to use the submarines to destroy the world via nuclear missiles so that any survivors are forced to live in Stromberg's dream world beneath the sea. However James must also defend himself against Anya as she finds out that James had killed her lover on a previous mission... When a massive underwater craft abducts U.S. and Russian submarines, global tensions are heightened to the brink of war. In order to find the true culprit, James Bond joins forces with beautiful Russian secret agent Anya Amasaova. Together they follow a trail that leads to Karl Stromberg, a powerful shipping magnate who is implementing a horrific scheme for world domination. Bond struggles to foil the plot, but Stromberg has provided him with the most lethal adversary steel-toothed giant. Agent 007's adventure takes him to the Egyptian pyramids, under the sea and to a mountaintop ski chase that builds to one of the most amazing stunts ever filmed.

