The Hollow

 The Hollow is a tale of two young explores Amy and Erowynn who head out to catalog bird species living in an un-traveled plot of land. Amy is hoping to document some rare bird species and in turn plans to write an article that she hopes to eventually get published in National Geographic, her ultimate goal to eventually have her research lead to a scholarship for college. Erowynn has no interest in birds but has been friends with Amy since childhood and refuses to let her travel into the forests alone. He is weary and warns her of the potential dangers of traveling into the forest however; Amy is set in her ways and will stop at nothing to obtain her goal. Upon entering the untraveled territory and ultimately a hollow set deep in the forest, Amy and Erowynn soon realize that they are not alone. Exploring beyond the confines of the hollow Amy stumbles upon an old dilapidated barn and run down chicken coop that looks as if it was at some point in time the home of a large animal. Exploring the area she ultimately encounters a large Animal that witnesses her from a distance. This is an Animal that she has no recollection of ever seeing in any type of book, it's not a bear and it is not a moose but it's big. She quickly returns to where she left Erowynn and immediately expresses the need to flee the area. In the final act of the film Amy and Erowynn become lost in the forest and are forced to spend the night. In the darkness, but from within the safety of the trees, they encounter the Animal a second time. Upon day break both Amy and Erowynn begin to panic at the sight of very large foot prints at the base of their tree refuge. The realization sets in that not only is something in the forest but that they are also being followed. A chase ensues through the dense fern forests of the hollow until Amy and Erowynn eventually come to a dead end and an old abandoned mining irrigation tunnel. Amy's map shows them that the tunnel leads to a forest road on the other side of the blocking mountain. They venture into the darkness hoping to find their way back to safety and out of the forest. Will they make it out alive...or will they become another pair of missing people swallowed by the legend of The Hollow.

