This Divided State

 The film carefully examines the divisive nature of politics in an overwhelmingly conservative mid-western community. In September 2004, the student body representatives of Utah Valley State College invited controversial filmmaker Michael Moore to speak on campus two weeks before the Presidential election. An unanticipated uproar from the students and community ensued. Moore protestors claimed university funds should not pay for Moore's visit, while those in support of Moore fought to defend free speech. A community once considered politically passive was stirred to action, and the conflict played out in the media and several public forums. Those opposed to Moore's visit, in an effort to have the invitation rescinded, resorted to death threats, petitions, law suits, and bribery. Moore supporters, living in the high concentrate of Mormon conservatism, struggled to be heard, to defend new ideas, and to keep plans for his visit on track. Steven Greenstreet, the film's director, tracks the personal stories of the key figures embroiled in this controversy, as well as opinions of the community at large. By delving into the personal motives and expectations of those involved, Greenstreet effectively presents the causes and effects of this unprecedented debate. The result of his efforts is a documentary full of candor, conflict, and humor that stands as a fascinating commentary on the current "divided state" of both the nation and the small town of "Family City, USA." This Divided State follows the controversy surrounding Utah Valley State College's invitation to liberal filmmaker Michael Moore to speak on campus. Though UVSC is located in one of the most conservative counties in the United States, vehement opposition to Moore's visit was much greater than anticipated. Equally surprising, however, was the overwhelming support for Moore, vocalized by students and community members previously considered "apathetic." Debate between Moore supporters and Moore protestors raged openly in the media and public forums. Death threats, hate mail, bribes, and lawsuits were all candidly captured on film.

