This Island Earth

 Dr. Meacham is chosen along with others by the inhabitants of the planet Metaluna to do research that will help save their dying planet. However, an evil scheme is uncovered by the suspecting Dr. Meacham when he discovers the Metalunan's plan to take over Earth. Dr. Meacham then escapes an exploding Metalunan built Earth lab along with Dr. Adams only to be kidnapped while flying away in a small plane. A flying saucer wisks both the scientists off to Metaluna where they are held accountable for blowing up the Metalunan Earth lab during their escape. They later escape there with the help of Exeter the friendly Metalunan. Metaluna then self destructs and the Doctors make it safely back to Earth, which is saved from Metalunan invasion. Weird events in the life of atomic scientist Cal Meacham culminate in an invitation from the strange-looking Exeter to work at a secret lab in Georgia, supposedly in the cause of world peace. Other scientists are already there, including the gorgeous Ruth Adams. They quickly discover there's more to Exeter than meets the eye. Is he benevolent? It may take an interstellar journey to find out... Nuclear physicist Cal Meacham begins experiencing strange phenomena. First his plane has a burnout and just before it crashes, it is surrounded by a green glow and lands safely. Next he receives the parts for a strange device called an interroceter. When he assembles the device, it puts him into contact with an individual named Exeter. Exeter, then invites Cal to join a group of scientists on a secret research project. He then boards a remote controlled plane which takes him to a secret location. When he lands he meets old flame, Ruth Adams. They then go to a house where a secret lab is located. After Meacham meets his hosts he begins his work but soon he decides to escape with Ruth and fellow scientist Steve Carlson. During the escape attempt, Carlson is killed as well as several other scientists that were at the house. Cal and Ruth eventually discover that Exeter is an alien from the planet Metaluna and the reason they were kidnapped is to help Exeter and his people find a new source of energy to aid in their war with the warlike people of the planet Zagon. When they arrive on Metaluna, they meet the leader who informs them that the planet is on the verge of collapse and the only viable alternative is to move to Earth.

