Tocka bez povratka

 Remake of the Nikola Tanhofer's Classic, "H-8". The time period is right before the war in Yugoslavia in October 1990. The movie starts with a huge explosion from a crash of the a bus and a truck. There are helicopters, ambulances and reporters all over. We learn that half of the people in the bus are dead and at that point that is all we know. That's when the story goes retrogradely a day before and we learn of all different variety of passengers entering the bus, leaving Zagreb, Croatia and heading towards Belgrade, Serbia down the highway of Brotherhood and Unity (Autoput Bratstva i Jedinstava). From Belgrade, there is also a truck heading towards Zagreb and we learn about the drivers. That's where the suspense begins. We know there will be a crash between Serbia and Croatia and that the half of the people will die, but we don't know who. As we learn more and more about the motley crew of different passengers on board of the bus and become attached to them. It leaves us more tied up to our seats as the suspense is building up until the final ill-faithed crash. This tragic traffic accident that happens on the high-way between Serbia and Croatia shows an ideological crash between the two republics. As the political situation is heating up just months before the actual multi-national war in Yugoslavia breaks out. Autumn 1990., eve of the day and eve of the civil war in which Yugoslavia will perish. A bus is on its regular route from Zagreb to Belgrade on the "Road of Unity and Brotherhood", packed with a colorful and versatile bunch of people. On this highway, started long ago but never quite finished, two hardened "Brioni" (state couch company) drivers are transporting a young female music academy student, two reporters, a female foreign worker with her husband (from USA), a soldier, a peasant from Slavonia, a Serbian, a boot-legger (trader) - fresh tycoon, a doctor with his young son, an actor with a problematic career accompanying his fiancE, a sick girl with her parents, a young mother and her baby... From the direction of Belgrade, in a "TAM" truck with a trailer full of logs, a man called Prince (Knez) will start his way towards Zagreb. He was recently released from jail, and is accompanied by his teenage son who he never had a chance to meet. They will be joined by a Prince's buddy from his prison days, who has a plan to take Prince back to their old ways... In front of the Federal Parliament of Yugoslavia in Belgrade, a very important passenger in a black limousine is in a hurry to get to Zagreb. Everybody is commencing their journey with their own "luggage" - life stories, problems, uncertainties... In course of the two hours of this never ending trip, everyone will have the opportunity to reveal at least a piece of their life burden, interacting with other passengers. Everybody is in a hurry and everybody's only concern is their own. Finally, the destinies of the passengers from the two vehicles will be crossed on the highway near Bajakovo, where a fatal crash will occur, killing eight of the persons aboard. This is just a frame of the story that speaks about various kinds of people, different truths and different lies from a recent era - trying to find out what was the inevitable force that led those people to their catastrophe.

