Tommys Inferno

 Doing IT, or not doing IT, that is the question for leading man Tommy. His long time girlfriend Maria is ready to take the leap from fumbling touches and making out to the real thing. Tommy on the other hand works part time as an altar boy and has clergy in his genes, has an old-fashioned idea of sex and believes that it belongs within the sanctitude of marriage. Tommy's Inferno is therefore something as unlikely as a story about a boy who is "not ready for IT". When your late father was a priest you never knew and your mother is the personification of adult immaturity and loose morals, you don't have an easy relationship with sex. Tommy is torn between a wish to do what is right based on his mothers mistakes and a sexually frustrated girlfriend desperately trying to get into his pants. Tommy's mother finds love around every corner, the result of this is Tommys charming half-sister Isobel, who likes wearing superhero costumes. She is, in Tommy's worlds, the product of an African "drum instructor", and Tommy's wish to postpone his debut is both based on his mother's previous antics as well as his faith in what his father would have wanted. Best buddy Ahmed is Tommy's complete opposite, he desperately seeks to explore the freedom an liberties that come with being teenager. This turns out to be difficult as his parents are strict muslims. Ahmed has a relaxed and liberal relationship with Islam, and prefers to spend his time writing erotic stories about Tommy and Maria's imaginable sex life for sleazy magazines. Ahmed is fed up with conservative restrictions and religious moralism, and starts an anarchistic study group where he, the self-acclaimed hedonistic prophet, teaches the school's nerds and outcasts in the subject of self-workshop. Tommy's resistance to go all the way leads to Maria dumping him in favor of the school's slick-but-charming thespian. In his attempt to prevent this and get Maria back, Tommy gets caught in a whirlwind of darkness and deception. His world is turned upside down and Tommy is dragged trough a personal hell, where his ideals of love and the foundations of his beliefs are confronted by a harsh reality.

