Topaz

 A high ranking Russian official defects to the United States, where he is interviewed by US agent Michael Nordstrom. The defector reveals that a French spy ring codenamed "Topaz" has been passing NATO secrets to the Russians. Michael calls in his French friend and counterpart Andre Devereaux to expose the spies. A highly ranked Russian official, Boris Kusenov, his wife and daughter defect to America. Hoped to be a boon for their efforts battling the Cold War with Russia, the Americans soon find out that they have more to deal with than first thought, with Kusenov being less than cooperative, especially in regards to anything to do with a known leak in the French government, codenamed Topaz, which has seen top secret files leaked to those in Moscow. On discovering an agreement between the Russians and Cubans, agent Nordstrom enlists the aid of his friend, and French agent, Andre Devereaux who accompany at that time his daughter Michele at her honeymoon with journalist Francois Picard. AndrE accepts, but his wife Nicole is worried for him. After managing to get hold of some seriously damning papers from the visiting Cuban official Rico Parra, sneakily of course, a concerned Devereaux jets off to Cuba and catches up with his mistress Juanita de Cordoba, who is now secretly involved with a local underground movement whilst also being involved in another way with Parra. He finds out and kills Juanita. Ever the jet setter, Devereaux is now off home to Paris to get to the bottom of this whole leak problem. Michele wants to reconcile her parents. Nicole cheats Andre after his Cuban affair with the leader of the spy-ring "Topaz", Jacques Granville. Francois goes on, to find out, who is "Topaz" and he interrogate NATO-official Henri Jarre. A short time late Michele finds the murdered JarrE - and Francois is missing... In 1962, the highly ranked Russian intelligence officer Boris Kusenov defects to the United States of America with his wife and his daughter under the protection of CIA agent Michael Nordstrom. In Washington, Boris discloses the Russian movement in Cuba, and Nordstrom asks the French agent and his friend Andre Devereaux to get further documents from the Cuban leader Rico Parra using his anti-American corrupt secretary Luis Uribe. Then Devereaux travels to Cuba to get additional evidence of the Cuban Missiles with his mistress Juanita de Cordoba. When Devereaux returns, he receives orders from the French government to return to France to explain his participation in Cuba. However Nordstrom schedules a meeting of Devereaux with Boris and the ex-KGB official tells him about Topaz, the codename for a group of French officials in high circles who work for the Soviet Union. Further, he tells that the French NATO representative Henri Jarre is the second in the chain of command of the spy ring Topaz, leaking classified information to the soviets, and the head of spies in known only by the codename of Columbine. Devereaux realizes that he can not reveal the truth before finding who the traitor is.

