Total Recall

 Douglas Quaid is haunted by a recurring dream about a journey to Mars. He hopes to find out more about this dream and buys a holiday at Rekall Inc. where they sell implanted memories. But something goes wrong with the memory implantation and he remembers being a secret agent fighting against the evil Mars administrator Cohaagen. Now the story really begins and it's a rollercoaster ride until the massive end of the movie. Douglas Quaid explodes out of the year 2084 A.D. as he smashes his way through a horrifyingly real fantasy world, complete with a gorgeous but deadly wife, and into a mind-bending nightmarish reality of a Martian mining colony ruled over by a terrorizing dictator, who can alter reality to suit his whims. The red planet erupts with rebellious mutants, the fire of an alluring and mysterious woman and a vicious and savage enemy. What is reality when you can't trust your memory? An Earthbound construction worker keeps having dreams about Mars. A trip to a false memory transplant service for an imaginary trip to Mars goes terribly wrong and another personality surfaces. When his old self returns, he finds groups of his friends and several strangers seem to have orders to kill him. He finds records his other self left him that tell him to get to Mars to join up with the underground. The reality of the situation is constantly in question. Who is he? Which personality is correct? Which version of reality is true? The year is 2084. Douglas Quaid is a construction worker, every night Doug has been having horrible nightmares about the planet Mars and it has become very obsessive for Doug. Doug goes to "Rekall INC" a company that sales false memories of ideal holidays. When Doug has a false memory of a holiday on Mars implanted, it all goes terribly wrong. Doug has lost his memory and he is being chased by a group of assassins and his beautiful wife Lori is a agent who claims his whole life is a fake and he isn't who he is. After discovering he is Hauser, a former Mars Intelligence agent, Quaid goes to the colony on Mars, in hoping of finding answers. Where he meets a woman named Melina who is working for rebels and the assassins are working for Vilos Cohaggen, the colony's corrupt administrator. As Doug sets out to discover who he is and why Cohaagen is after him, Doug not only is finding answers, he also begins to question reality. Is the events of Rekall INC, being chased by assassins and going to Mars really happening? Or Is it all a dream? It is the future. Technology has flourished, and humans have successfully colonized on the planet Mars. Douglas Quaid, a mild-mannered construction worker with a gorgeous wife and a nice apartment is very happy. But when Doug wanted to go to a place called "Rekall" a place where doctors provide artificial memories on vacations, his life becomes another that he knows nothing about, before he knows it, his wife turns on him and agents from an Martian organization led by the colony leader, Vilos Cohaagen are bent on his death. Doug receives a message from a man named Huaser, telling him to go to Mars and find a woman named Melina. Doug will also have to unlock the details of his former life with the help of a mutant rebel leader named Kuato to defeat Cohaagen and save the colonies on mars.

