Transporter 2

 Frank Martin is the best in the business. The ex-Special Forces operative hires himself out as a mercenary "transporter" who moves goods--human or otherwise. Very simple, he delivers, no questions asked. Frank has relocated from the French Mediterranean to Miami, Florida, where as a favor to a friend, Frank is driving for the wealthy Billings family. There's very little that can surprise The Transporter, but young Jack Billings has done just that; Frank has unexpectedly bonded with Jack, age 6, who he drives to and from school. But when Jack is kidnapped, Frank must use his battle-tested combat skills to retrieve the boy and thwart the kidnappers' master plan to release a virus that will kill anyone with whom it comes in contact. Professional driver Frank Martin is living in Miami, where he is temporarily filling in for a friend as the chauffeur for a government narcotics control policymaker and his family. The young boy in the family is targeted for kidnapping, and Frank immediately becomes involved in protecting the child and exposing the kidnappers. We find the faithful transporter again carting around goods he usually does not. This time the cargo is again human. After he is forced to turn over his human cargo to a mercenary hired by the Columbian drug cartels, he is fingered as the kidnapper and must work in stealthy quickness to reclaim the boy, catch the real kidnapper and save the entire drug fighting community. Add in far-fetched biological warfare (a la ('Mission Impossible 2' (qv))), several Jackie Chan-esque fight scenes and exciting vehicle chases (more than just cars). Former soldier turned hired criminal Frank Martin, now living in Miami, has been hired for his latest assignment. Frank has been hired as a bodyguard to Jack Billings, son of Jefferson Billings, a wealthy US official for the US government drug control organization who is attending a conference with the DEA. When Jack is kidnapped by a international crime boss known as Gianni and his associates including his murderous lover Lola and gets implicated in the kidnapping, Frank with help of trusted friend, French police detective Tarconi, sets out to rescue Jack and takes on Gianni and his henchmen, as Gianni infects Jack with a engineered virus which will infect those who come into contact with Jack, as Gianni plans to infect Jefferson and sabotage the conference. In Miami, the professional driver Frank Martin is working temporarily for the Billings family, transporting their son Jack while his driver is on vacation. Mr. Billings is an important member of the government and Mrs. Audrey Billings trusts on Frank, who promises to protect the boy. When Jack is kidnapped by a mercenary hired by the Colombian cartels, Frank faces the criminals and the Miami police force trying to rescue the kid. When the boy returns to his family, Jack discloses the real and lethal intention of the abduction of Jack.

