Tridev

 Honest, diligent and brave Police Inspector Karan Saxena while carrying out his investigations against gangster and smuggler Bhujang is mysteriously framed and transfer to a remote area called Madhavpur. While residing there Karan sets to put things right and gets into confrontations with a bandit, Jai Singh who is good at heart and always ready to fight for the oppressed because his own dad, a brave Martyr has been killed by Bhujang, he too join with Karan to wreak vengeance against Bhujang. Ravi the son of the Mumbai Police Commissioner, Mathur joins Bhujang gang secretly wanting to get his own revenge from Bhujang. These three men Ravi, Karan and Jai manage to gather evidence against Bhujang and his gang and sets out on a dangerous road of crime, without the laws help in order to liberate the country from Bhujang / Bhairav Singh and his gang. Karan Saxena is a police officer who lives with his dad, a judge by profession. He gets engaged to the Commissioner's daughter Divya Mathur. Karan's attempts to locate a notorious criminal gang headed by Bhujang alias Bhraiv Singh, gets him framed. The case is tried in court and Karan is proving guilty due to lack of sufficient evidence. The same day his dad committed suicide by hanging himself and he is transfer to a remote area called Madhapur as his punishment. Finding the correct opportunity to do away with Karan; Bhujang and his gang mercilessly burn his house with him inside. Unknown to the gang, the media and the police; Karan survives and form a gang call "Tridev" consisting of himself, a village bandit named Jay Singh, whose dad has been murdered by Bhujang and the Commissioner's son, Ravi Mathur, whose sister has once been abducted by Bhujang. These three men swear vengeance against Bhujang and his gang. As part of there vengeance against Bhujang they destroy his wear-house with his goods, fail bank robbery and openly challenge him. Now these men might as well destroy the entire gang without interference from the police. Inspector Karan Saxena is a honest and diligent police inspector with the Bombay Police Force. He lives a middle-class life with his father, a Judge, and has a sweetheart in Divya Mathur, the daughter of Police Commissioner Mathur, who he hopes to marry soon. Things do not go well for Karan as he uses excessive force and is disciplined for trying to make a false arrest, and ultimately gets transferred to distant Madhopur; his engagement to Divya is annulled by Mathur; and his dad purportedly commits suicide. Karan re-locates to Madhopur, has a violent encounter with a bandit named Jay Singh, but both become friends after they realize that they have something in common - honesty, and to avenge their woes against Bhujang and his gang. When they do reach Bhujang, they find out that he has a new lieutenant - Ravi Mathur - who is none other than Divya's brother. Will this new entrant prove to be a boon or a blessing for the duo? Watch as events unfold and take you to the climax of this thriller action to the tunes of chart-buster "Oye, Oye...." which sold millions of tapes in the world. Brave and honest Police Inspector Karan Saxena, while attempting to curb criminal activities in Mumbai, gets himself framed by a terrorist named Bhujang. He witnesses the suicidal death of his dad, Judge Saxena, separation from his fiancEe, Divya Mathur and is transferred to a remote area called Madhavpur. While in Madhavpur, Karan clashes force with a thug named Jay Singh and finds that he does not play by the rules of the law. He sets out to put things right but both realize that they are against the same forces that got Karan transferred. A strong friendship is formed between both and they join with Ravi Mathur, the son of Commissioner Mathur, whose sister, Divya Mathur has been abducted by Bhujang. The three heroes then form a gang called Tridev and will only rest after destroying Bhujang and his criminal empire.

