Triple Justice

 Rancher Brad Henderson ('George O'Brien' (qv)) rides to Star City to be the best man at the wedding of his boyhood friend, Sheriff Bill Gregory ('LeRoy Mason' (qv)) Encountering Fred Cleary ('Paul Fix' (qv)), Tommy Payson ('Malcolm 'Bud' McTaggart' (qv)) and Frank Wiley ('Glenn Strange (I)' (qv)) on the road, he rides with them unaware they intend to rob the bank while everyone is at the wedding. Brad walks into the holdup in which the cashier (Gaylord Pendleton) is killed and Gregory seriously wounded. He chases the bandits but is himself captured by the posse. Deputy Al Reeves ('Harry Woods (I)' (qv)), secretly the gang's leader, arrests Brad and Gregory, near death and unconscious, cannot identify him. Al divides the loot and commands his three henchmen to beat it for the border. Brad escapes and takes after them. He finds Cleary, dead from thirst, in the desert and mails Cleary's share of the loot to Gregory but it falls into the hands of Reeves, who sets out for Tule Mesa after Brad. He is chasing Payson when the latter rides over a cliff and is killed. Brad again sends the loot-share back to Star City, holding up a stage to do so. Hiding in a barn from a posse, he meets Lorna Payson ('Virginia Vale (I)' (qv)), sister of the outlaw. She helps Brad escape to Mexico but Reeves convinces her that Brad killed her brother and she joins the pursuit. Brad locates Wiley on the ranch of Don Solas ('Jean Del Val' (qv)) in Mexico and exposes him to Solas as a crook. Solas and his men help Brad fight off the Reeves' posse until Gregory, who has recovered, arrives with another posse. A record for multiple weddings at the end of a B-western is achieved when Gregory and Susan ('Peggy Shannon (I)' (qv)), Brad and Lorna, and the three daughters of Solas are all married in a mass ceremony. Brad Henderson arrives in Star City just in time to witness three men rob a bank of $30,000 and kill a teller. Charged for the crime and jailed, Brad realizes he must escape and track down the real killers since the only one who can prove his innocence is his friend, Sheriff Bill Gregory, who has been shot and will not soon regain consciousness. Chasing down the robbers one by one, he eventually discovers the identity of the gang's ringleader.

