Trishul

 Vijay Kumar is the illegitimate son of a construction baron, Raj Kumar Gupta and his first love, Shanti, whom he gives up in order to marry a wealthy heiress. Raj does not know of this son, who grows up and after his mother's death comes to Delhi to take revenge on the Gupta family by destroying the family's business and connections with each other. All is well with the world for Shanti, a self-respecting middle-class secretary, when she falls in love with Raj, an engineer in a construction company. But Raj's mother has bigger ambition for him. Raj's boss Seth Deendayal expresses his desire to get his daughter, Kamini, married to him and make him a partner. Raj's mother is jublient at the opportunity. She convinces her son to agree to the proposal. That changes life for Shanti. Shanti leaves the city and endures many hardships to bring up her illegitimate son Vijay. She brings him up to be a strong and confident man. She confides her life story to him. After Shanti's death Vijay goes in search of the man who betrayed his mom for the riches. That man is now a millionaire and owner of a very big construction company in Delhi. Vijay is still a poor guy with nothing but self-confidence and his mom's blessings. A great movie unfolds about Vijay's struggle to gain a foothold in the city and how he makes his presence known to his father. Sanjeev Kumar and Amitabh Bachchan present sterling performance as father and son. The battle is not only of money but also of minds. The dialogues are simply superb. Shashi Kapoor, Hema Malini, Poonam Dillon and Sachin provide delightful support. Rakhee is very good as a level-minded intelligent secretary. One must see the movie to find out how Vijay faces all challenges thrown in by R.K. Gupta and how he reveals himself to his step-family and to his father. Although the film has five lengthy songs, the serious drama and action is not lost. Amitabh yet again reprises his role of angry young man successfully. An engineer visiting a town, has a brief affair with a local girl and walks off, leaving her with a child. The son grows up to avenge his deserted mother. Vijay (Bachchan) is the angry young man playing the son. Sanjeev Kumar plays the father. Raj Kumar Gupta and Shanti are in love, and hope to marry soon. Raj introduces Shanti to his mom, but she does not approve of Shanti, as she is poor, besides she has already made plans for him to marry Kamini, who comes from a wealthy family. Raj gives in to his mom's wishes, and goes to wish good-bye to Shanti, who tells him that she is expecting a child. Years later, Shanti's son has grown up to be Vijay Kumar. Shanti has told her story to Vijay, and expects him to avenge her humiliation, and Vijay agrees to do so. After Shanti passes away, Vijay begins his vendatta and vengeance against the Gupta family. Raj Kumar Gupta alias RK Gupta lives a wealthy lifestyle in Delhi, India with his wife, Kamini Gupta, son Shekhar Gupta and daughter Kusum Gupta, he is the owner of several construction companies in Delhi and this makes him a popular businessman. Quite unknown to Raj that he has had an earlier relationship with a woman which had result in the birth of a son, Vijay Kumar who is out now to seek revenge from Raj, even using his family as bait if possible.

