Troubadours

 Examines the California singer/songwriter movement of the early 1970s, as seen through the eyes of two of its brightest lights Taylor. Intimately tracking King and Taylor's artistic developments and enduring partnership, the film also interweaves the intriguing story of the 'world famous' Troubadour club that cemented their musical legacy. Run by a mercurial impresario named Doug Weston, the Troubadour was, for a time, the premier launching pad for the likes of King, Taylor, and other soon-to-be-boldfaced names David Crosby; even Steve Martin and Cheech & Chong. But 'Troubadors' also chronicles the dark side of the burgeoning L.A. music industry, evinced by hard drugs, critical opprobrium, and the eventual decay of the Troubadour itself. Between 1968 and 1975, the Troubador, a club in West Hollywood, launched the careers of many of the era's greatest singer-songwriters. In 2007, two of those - 'Carole King' (qv) and 'James Taylor (I)' (qv) - performed there once again to commemorate the venue's 50th anniversary. Emerging from the break-up of the the 1960's biggest rock and roll bands, King, Taylor and other pop-folk musicians told more personal and intimate stories through their music. Both King and Taylor had musical success before their meeting (King's primarily as a New York based songwriter), which came to pass when the music scene was moving to California, most specifically Laurel Canyon, and the Troubador was holding open mic nights for musicians and comedians. The two, despite never have been romantically linked and being totally different personalities, saw each other as the compliment to complete the other's musical insecurities. Partly because of the California locale and partly because of the acoustic nature, their songs were often deemed mellow, which belied the actual intensity of the overall music/lyric combination. As their collaborative success led to individual success, each moved on, which in part was due to the demise of the glory days of the Troubador itself.

