True Lies

 Harry Tasker leads a double life. At work he is a government agent with a license to do just about anything, while at home he pretends to be a dull computer salesman. He is on the trail of stolen nuclear weapons that are in the hands of fanatic terrorists when something more important comes up. Harry finds his wife is seeing another man because she needs some adventure in her life. Harry decides to give it to her, juggling pursuit of terrorists on one hand and an adventure for his wife on the other while showing he can Tango all at once. Harry Tasker is a sales Representative for a computer company, with a wife, Helen, and a daughter, Dana, with a house in the suburbs in Washington D.C. Or so everybody thinks. Harry is actually an agent of a private organization that hunts down any threats to the United States. While he is investigating a possible threat on the U.S., his wife Helen becomes lonely and starts to hang around another man, a used car salesman named Simon, so Harry secretly uses his organization's equipment to monitor on his wife and her new friend. Harry must also worry about the threat on the U.S. Meanwhile, a middle eastern terrorist named Salim Abu Aziz, has formed is own terrorist network he calls "Crimson Jihad" and they are threatening to Nuke the U.S. if they do not get what they want. So, Harry must stop the terrorists and hopefully, save his own personal life. Harry Tasker everyone thinks. In reality, Tasker is a spy in one of the United States government's highest branches. As Tasker continues to keep his profession a secret from his family, his wife, Helen, begins to surreptitiously meet with a used car salesman, Simon. Upon discovering this, Tasker sets out on a personal mission to win his wife back and find out Simon's true motives. Meanwhile, a Middle Eastern terrorist organization known as "Crimson Jihad" is on the rise, threatening nuclear war with the United States if their demands are not met. As the clock winds down, Tasker must not only fight against the bloodthirsty terrorists, but also fight to regain the trust of his family. Harry Tasker is a secret agent in the Bond style. But his wife Helen and family think he is a computer salesman. When Helen seeks out a life of excitement in the arms of another man, Harry sets out to give her the excitement she craves while simultaneously battling Arab terrorists in possession of an atomic bomb and causing his rival in love to change his trousers. The secret agent Harry Tasker has been happily married with his wife, the legal secretary Helen, for many years living in the suburbs and having a teenager daughter, Dana. Helen does not suspect that Harry has a double life, and she believes he is a computer salesman. After a top-secret mission, Harry finds evidences that Helen is having an affair with Simon, an used cars salesman that seduced Helen with the glamour and excitement of his fake life, telling her that he is a spy. Harry forces his partner Albert Gibson to use the resources of their agency to follow Simon and Helen; they abduct Helen wearing masks and later they assign a pseudo mission for her. However, a group of terrorists kidnap Helen and Harry and the couple gets involved with a dangerous group that possesses an atomic bomb ready to be exploded in Florida.

