Try to Remember

 After twelve years of being away, Lisa Monroe returns to her usually quiet hometown of Milford to work as a police detective. She was recruited by her childhood friend, now Lieutenant Joe O'Conner. The first case on which she works as lead investigator is the death of Louise Dexter, her grandmother. Although the autopsy points to the death being accidental, Lisa finds evidence that implicates Jake Mitchell as the murderer. Jake Mitchell raped and killed Lisa's best friend Jenny Rand fifteen years earlier. Jake has been paroled and has returned to Milford to live. At his trial, he vowed revenge on the four people who testified against him, namely Louise, Sergeant Stuart Kling (Lisa's colleague who does not respect her investigative abilities), a security guard named Vinnie DiCampo, and Lisa herself. To some extent, all four feel guilty, but especially Lisa, about not preventing Jenny's death, each who had an opportunity that day to intervene in the interaction between Jake and Jenny. Lisa's current mission is to find and stop Jake before he kills them. But she tries to be objective in the face of what so far is only circumstantial evidence against Mitchell, being objective which is something difficult for her to do. Fifteen years after Jenny Rand was murdered and her supposed murderer Jake Mitchell, was incarcerated. Those who were connected begin dropping down dead. Homicide Cop, Lisa Monroe (who still feels guilt for her part in letting her best friend die) is sent to investigate, reawakening painful memories of that incident, which still haunt her. But as everyone thinks that Jake Mitchell, who's recently been granted parole is behind the homicides out for revenge on those who helped unjustly put him away, Lisa soon learns that someone else with a more deeper vengeance is behind, this until her sleuthing leads to the most unlikely suspect, who's put her high on his grudge list, and will not stop, till her like the others he blames for letting Jenny die are fatally punished

