Tuck Everlasting

 Tuck Everlasting is the story of a girl named Winnie and a family whom she meets, the Tucks. The Tucks have a secret, they're immortal.They drank water from a spring that was actually a fountain of youth. Until the end of time, they will stay that way. Winnie falls in love with one of the Tucks, Jesse, a "17"-year-old boy who shares the same feelings for her. Scared of death, Winnie must choose between being immortal and being with Jesse or following the circle of life and dying someday. The Tucks try to teach her how she shouldn't fear death, how they would give anything to die. It teaches the importance and understanding of life and death.It shows that you should not fear death, but to fear an unlived life. Winnie Foster has everything a young woman could desire. She comes from a well-bred, wealthy, and respected family. She dresses in the finest clothes and is afforded every opportunity to refine herself. But Winnie finds that the heat of summer is not nearly as stifling as her gilded cage. She longs for freedom, for adventure. She escapes one morning to explore the woods surrounding her family's home, and encounters the Tucks, a close-knit family with a mysterious past that begs the question forever, would you? And just when Winnie believes she has answered that question for herself, a mysterious man looking to profit from the source of the Tuck's immortality that will have her question her life, her desires, and what is the right thing to do. And in the end, learns, that death is not what is to be feared, but an unlived life. Winifred "Winnie" Foster is a fifteen-year-old who is not satisfied with her life. One day when she is wandering through her wood she comes upon a boy who she automatically falls in love with. After having a conversation with this boy whose name is Jesse Tuck, she finds herself being kidnapped by Jesse's mother and brother. She soon finds out that the Tuck family are immortals because they drank from water in Winnie's wood. Jesse is seventeen, but he falls in love with Winnie anyway and asks her to become immortal when she turns seventeen, so they can be together. Winnie will have to make up her mind about becoming an immortal when she turns seventeen and also help Jesse's mother get out of jail for kidnapping her. Will her love for Jesse be strong enough to become an immortal and can she help Mrs. Tuck escape from jail?

