Tum

 Kamini and Vinod have been married for 18 years. Vinod has been aware that he has not been devoting enough time for Kamini and to make it up he decides to take her up to Mauritius to celebrate their wedding anniversary. She is to leave from Mumbai and he from London, returning from their respective business trips. However Vinod does not turn up at Mauritius, living Kamini very disappointed. A young photographer Jatin is on the island and finding Kamini alone gives her company. Kamini spends most of her day with Jatin. On the eve of her anniversary, they drink, dine and dance together. Kamini gets drunk and Jatin takes her to her room. In the morning when she wakes up she finds Jatin in her bed. The same evening, Vinod arrives and Kamini wants to reveal the truth to him but at the same time does not want to upset him. They return to Mumbai. But Jatin follows Kamini to her house and becomes friendly with her complete family. Kamini turns into an obsession for him. Married and mother of two children, Kamini Gupta, while vacationing alone in Mauritius, meets with Jatin Pandey, a professional photographer, who is younger and quite openly attracted to her. Pleased at the attention she was receiving, she decides to humor him. The next day she wakes up in his bedroom, annoyed with herself. When she meets with her husband, she is unable to confide in him, and hopes this will become part of her past. When the Guptas return to Bombay, Kamini receives a phone call from Jatin, she asks him to forget about her and never phone her again. But Jatin is adamant, he has never met a woman like Kamini, and would like to get intimate with her again. When Kamini persists in ignoring him, he strikes up a friendship with her husband, Vinod, and gets invited to the Gupta house for dinner. Once in the Gupta house, he is polite with the shocked Kamini, but charming toward her teenaged daughter. He makes it quite clear that he will continue to lure her towards him unless and until Kamini meets with him. Now Kamini must decide what is good for herself, her daughter, and her marriage.

