Turistas

 While traveling on vacation through the country of Northeastern of Brazil by bus, the American Alex Trubituan, his sister Bea Tribituan and their friend Amy Harrington meet the also foreigners Pru Stagler, Finn Davies and Liam Kuller after an accident with their bus. They follow a track through the woods and find a hidden paradisiacal beach. They decide to stay in the place drinking beer and dancing funk and parting with the locals and they meet the amicable Brazilian teenager Kiko. They are drugged with "Bom Noite, Cinderela" (Ruffies, literal translation a trick used by smalltime crooks to steal naive people) and when they wake up, they are practically naked, with all their belongings, clothes, money, jewels, passports, backpacks etc. stolen. They walk to a small village trying to find a police station, they get into trouble with the dwellers and they are helped by their acquaintance Kiko, who leads them to his uncle's isolated well-equipped cabin in the woods to wait for the next bus two days later. Along the night, Kiko's "uncle" arrives with his friends and the group discloses the sinister intentions of the newcomers. American college student Alex, his younger teenage sister Bea along with their close friend Amy are backpacking through Brazil. They meet up with similar companions with Australian traveler Pru, on a cross country bus. They barely survive after it crashes off a cliff. Further mishaps occur due to becoming stranded on a beach by so-called "friendly locals", some of whom have deprived them of all their possessions! Searching for any sympathetic police, they meet familiar face Kiko, who offers to lead them to sanctuary that being a house deep in the jungle. But upon finally reaching this supposed safe haven Amy soon vanishes, and it is only then that they discover (way too late) that their "saviors" offering them shelter are operators of a black market specializing in running human organs, who are seeking unwilling foreign donors (foreign tourist) to benefit their unfortunate countrymen. In their captors' eyes, foreigners have come into Brazil, raping their precious lands of its rubber, sugar, gold--even using its people as throwaway sexual playthings. For this exploitation of their country, our backpackers are now set to go under the surgeon's scalpel, courtesy of the captors twisted ringleader Dr. Zamora, Brazil's answer to 'Dr. Giggles'.

