Turn Back Now

 Visit the world of Solomon Travi, a successful, polo-playing international attorney. Although still single, he has all of the material possessions he could want; a million-dollar house, A Rolls and a Ferrari. The love of his life, Becky, is wild and vivacious; she brings out the child in him. He is concerned she may not make a good wife as she is so carefree, but his personal world revolves around her presence. Ivanko, an existing client, refers Nicolai, an acquaintance, who requires a visa (L1) in order to conduct business in the United States. Nicolai invests millions of dollars a week for Russian investors. He befriends Solo(mon) and they spend much time together. During one transfer of money to LA via Hungary to New York, $3,000,000 disappear. The Russians want to kill Nicolai so he is changing hotels on a daily basis. As he spoke well of Solomon, the Russians believe Sol! o designed the logistics of the loss. Not quite as scared as Nicolai, or perhaps in denial of the event, Solo does not leave his home. He does however heed the words of Nicolai's Consigliere/bodyguard and conducts a walk-through of his house with a gun every day. Nicolai wants Solo to call the FBI to get Interpol involved; he is unable to as he has no standing in the U.S. on a foreign matter. When he calls the FBI they monitor his house and phones. As a result of something they heard, he is arrested and faces over 100 years on consecutive charges, or 25 if he takes the 'deal'. With a million-dollar cash only bail, his home, cars, and stocks were sold so he could leave custody. Early on in the story, at a staff meeting, an attorney informs him of a case she lost. This was a close friend who lost based on circumstantial evidence. He faced three years in prison. She asked what to tell him and Solo replied that he should put on a long coat and walk in front of a moving car. His world is upside down. One group wants to kill him and the other wants to imprison him. Solo must decide whether he will follow his own advice. A Harvard-trained, polo-playing international attorney takes on a Russian client who turns his world upside down. The lawyer faces decades in a federal prison and has to sell all of his assets for the cash bail. His solution is to walk in front of a moving car rather than spending any time in a prison. Will he do it?

