Tyagi

 Shankar, as the eldest son of Choudhry Gangaprasad Dayal, has always made sacrifices for his two siblings, Shakti and Prem. He financed them by mortgaging his valuables and property, much to the chagrin of his dad. When Shakti rapes Sujata, and is arrested, Shankar negotiates with Sujata and gets her to withdraw the complaint and marry Shakti. When Shakti, Prem, and Sujata re-locate, the two brothers get involved with smuggler and underworld Don, Dhabla, they end up swindling him. When Dhabla's partner seeks vengeance, Shakti kills him, and Shankar accepts the blame and is sentenced to prison for life, leaving his dad, wife, Parvati, and a newborn son to fend for themselves. He is let out after several years for good behavior, returns home to find that their house has been sold by Shakti; his dad has passed away; Parvati and his son are missing. He does locate Parvati in Bombay, this is when he is told that his son was killed after being chased by Prem and run over by a vehicle. Angered and out of control, he decides to kill them both, but Sujata pleads with him. Now years later, Shankar must again be prepared to make more sacrifices - this time for Shakti's grown daughter, Aarti, who was eloped with Amar, the son of a tailor, Nand Lal; as well as rescue Shakti and Prem from Dhabla's wrath - a rescue that may well cost him his life. Village-based Shankar makes his living as a farmer, living with his dad, Choudhry Gangaprasad Dayal and two brothers, Shakti Dayal and Prem Dayal. He borrows money to fund his brothers education in the city. But once in the city Shakti and Prem meet with an underworld criminal named Dhabla, both team up with him and begin to carry on illegal activities amidst chaos. As time goes on and both brothers fail to return home, Shankar relocates to the city to meet them. However, he is unimpressed with the progress they have made within a small period of time and decides to live with them. He witnesses Shakti murdering a man, and, has to decide all their futures.

