U-571

 In the midst of World War II, the battle below the seas rages. The Nazi's have the upper edge as the Allies are unable to crack their war codes. That is, until a wrecked U-boat sends out an SOS signal, and the Allies realise this is their chance to seize the 'enigma coding machine'. But masquerading as Nazi's and taking over the U-boat is the smallest of their problems. The action really begins when they get stranded on the U-boat. During World War II, the Allies were having trouble against the German Navy especially their U-Boats because of their highly sophisticated cipher machines. When a German U-Boat is damaged and is waiting for assistance, the Americans decide that this is an opportunity for them to get the machine. So they have one of their subs made up to look like a German, and plan to pretend to be the ship sent to assist them and take control of the U-Boat and take the machine and destroy the sub so that the Germans will not know that they have the machine. And everything went according to plan; they got the machine and transferred the crew to their sub and were about to leave when out of nowhere they're hit by a torpedo from the German relief sub. The members of the crew who were not on board the sub, proceed to board the German U-Boat and try to make it back. Now the senior officer is the sub's XO who's eager to be in command but his commander had told him earlier that he felt he was not ready because he might not be ready to make tough decisions. And now he has to, if he and the survivors are to survive. In the battle front of espionage and code cracking of World War II, there remains but one task on the Allied agenda machine which will allow the Allied naval forces to locate and track submerged German U-Boat submarines. When one such German vessel breaks down after a battle with British forces, a secret mission is dispatched to take over the U-Boat by commando American forces and retrieve an Enigma machine intact. The raid goes well, at first, yet following the destruction of the American mothership and the arrival of reenforcement German ships, the Americans trapped on the U-Boat must use their training and wits to pilot U-571 in order to save their lives.

