Ultimate Reality

 Joe Morris dreamed of producing the ultimate reality TV contest -- one that would push people to their absolute limits. His creation -- a game called 'Isolation' -- involves placing contestants in an empty room where they sit, alone, and do nothing. The show, which becomes a worldwide sensation, includes ten offbeat contestants who sit for years, in hopes of winning the ten million dollar prize. In a society of endless distractions such as cell phones, instant messaging and video games, Ultimate Reality asks the ultimate question -- how long could you survive in complete and total 'isolation'? Joe Morris dreamed of producing the ultimate reality contest -- one that would push people to their absolute limits. His creation -- a game called Isolation -- involves placing contestants in an empty room where they sit, alone, and do nothing. When a major TV network decides to give his idea a chance, the most controversial television show in America hits the airwaves, and captures the attention of a worldwide audience. The idea is simple. Ten ordinary people are locked away, each alone in a room, and the one who can last the longest comes away with a ten million dollar prize. The contestants, including a yoga instructor, an animal rights activist, and even an ordinary housewife from Pittsburgh, are locked into their cells with nothing more than the clothing on their backs. With no television, books or music to keep them distracted, they embark on a long, tedious struggle for mental survival. During their quiet, mind-numbing journey, their mental and physical health deteriorates, and soon the camera on the wall becomes the only "friend" that they can talk to. A huge success, the show becomes a worldwide sensation, but eventually becomes the target of human interest groups worldwide. Three years later and with two contestants remaining, the network fights to keep the show alive. Despite his new-found success, Joe finds himself alone and soon discovers that the only person with whom he feels a true connection is completely out of reach. Or is she? In a society of endless distractions including cell phones, instant messaging and video games, Ultimate Reality asks the ultimate question -- how long could you survive in complete and total isolation?

