Undermind

 This psychological dramatic thriller set in New York City is about one man on a journey to find himself. Derrick, a 27 year-old corporate lawyer with a large trust fund, enters the polar opposite world of Zane, a hapless criminal and an aspiring musician. Although the two have never met, and never will, the lives of Derrick and Zane are more connected than either one could ever imagine. One morning the privileged Derrick wakes up in a different apartment, in bed with a woman he has never seen before. It's clear that she knows him, but she calls him Zane. And so does everybody else. From that moment on, Derrick finds himself living Zane's criminal life, where individuals strangely resemble those in his real life shoots in self defense in this new world resembles his former psychiatrist; Lucy, a manager of an upscale jewelry store that he has been forced to rob is the embodiment of his former girlfriend, Olivia; he takes as hostage a woman who is his mother's doppelganger, as well as the Sampson couple, Brian Sampson and Wendy Sampson. Meanwhile, Zane has also entered a parallel world and must now grapple with Derrick's life. He is seduced by Derrick's privileged world of money and power. As he begins to contend with Derrick's demons, he yearns to return to and improve his own life, yet is completely powerless to do so. As Derrick and Zane make his way through the life of the other, each of them starts to reshape his new world and in so doing discover hidden strengths that neither knew he possessed. The alcoholic lawyer Derrick Hall has his life absolutely controlled by his possessive mother and is not able to give a step by himself. He likes his fiancEe Lucy, but he does not give a definition to their relationship, raising a family of their own. He is totally dissatisfied with his life, and wishes to turn it upside down before sleeping. On the next day, his life is swapped with the criminal Zane Waye, and their lives and attitudes are totally altered with the exchange.

