Under Siege

 The battleship Missouri is about to be decomissioned. Casey Ryback is Captain Adam's personal cook. And Ryback is always butting heads with the ship's XO Commander Krill but the Captain always intercedes. One day, after the President visits the Missouri, which is also the Captain's birthday, the Captain learns that a helicopter has been cleared to land on the ship by Commander Krill, which he was not informed of. When questioned Krill tells the Captain that it's a surprise for his birthday, the Captain then allows it. Later after another one of their scuffles, Krill has Ryback locked in the freezer. During the party, the rock band reveals themselves to be mercenaries, led by William Stranix, a CIA operative, who is in league with Krill to unload all of the ship's nuclear warheads. They lock up all of the crew and make preparations to remove the warheads. And Krill remembers Ryback, Stranix sends two of his men to take care of Ryback, only thing is that Ryback took care of them. Upon discovering their bodies, Stranix deduces that Ryback is more than a cook. He then sends Krill to check on him, and Krill discovers that Ryback's a NAVY SEAL, who got busted down to a cook after an incident in Panama. And Ryback continues to create trouble for them, so Stranix tries to hunt him down. Along the way, Ryback meets Jordan, a former playmate, who was supposed to entertain at the party but was also forgotten. The legendary U.S. battleship, the U.S.S. Missiouri is going to be decommissioned. But the worst has happened, terrorists have taken over the ship and are planning to sell the nuclear arsenal aboard. Now, only one man stands in the way A ex- Navy SEAL turned cook, Casey Ryback. Casey Ryback is a former Navy SEAL captain who is now the cook aboard the USS Missouri. Everyone aboard is about to celebrate the birthday of Captain Adams. They've even hired a band led by William Strannix, and former playboy playmate Jordan Tate to jump out of a cake and dance. What Adams doesn't know is that he is in for a deadly surprise. Strannix has Adams killed and takes the ship to steal its nuclear missiles, spreading his men, including Commander Krill, throughout the ship, but Strannix and his men are underestimating Casey. Casey is an expert in martial arts, weapons, tactics, and explosives. After crossing paths with Jordan, Casey lets Jordan tag along with him in his mission to stop Strannix. A US battleship on its way to be decommissioned is the target for a ruthless gang of terrorists. Fortunately, there is a hero, and he's the cook. Single handed, (well almost, he's helped by a beautiful woman) he makes life difficult for the terrorists.

