Under Siege 2

 Casey Ryback has now retired from the Navy and is now a chef at the Mile High Cafe in Denver, Colorado. Ryback taking his niece Sarah Ryback on a vacation. They board a train traveling through the Rocky Mountains from Denver to Los Angeles. Travis Dane takes the train hostage and starts using the train as a control center in his effort to take control of a top-secret government outer space super-weapon. Dane built the weapon but was fired by the government before it was deployed. He has since hooked up with shadowy Middle Eastern terrorists who have offered him 1 billion dollars to use the satellite to blow up the Eastern seaboard by targeting a nuclear reactor that is located underneath the Pentagon. Dane lets the Pentagon know that he's got control of the weapon by using it to blow up a Chinese chemical plant. Officials can't stop him because they can't locate his headquarters. As long as the train keeps moving, his location can't be fixed. Ryback enlists a porter named Bobby Zachs to help him go after Dane. Casey Ryback is traveling with his niece on a train, which is hijacked by terrorists. The terrorists need a moving headquarters, so they can take over a satellite capable of vaporizing anything in its path. The government can't stop them from destroying Washington and also rupturing a nuclear reactor, killing millions. Casey Ryback uses his Navy-Seal training to take out all of the terrorists in an action-packed ride. Grazer is a high tech satellite that's just been deployed and it's spying ability is working. Now the two military technicians who know the access code, are seeing each other on the side and are off for a week-end getaway. They board a train. Later the train is hijacked, and the two of them are brought to the leader, Travis Dane, the man who designed Grazer but was fired by the government before the project was completed. He is now working for some terrorists; he takes control of Grazer and uses it's weapon system to attack some installations over the world. He then reveals himself to the people who fired him and announces his plan to hit the pentagon, which will cause the nuclear reactor that's under it to crack thus destroying Washington. Dane has managed to keep his whereabouts a secret but unfortunately for him and his cohorts, Casey Ryback, the Navy Seal turned cook is on board with his niece and is causing all sorts of problems for them. Commandos take over a passenger train in a remote, mountainous region and install computer and radio equipment so that it becomes a moving command post for the control of a incredibly destructive military satellite. Their plan for the destruction of targets like Washington. But Casey Ryback is on board, and attempts to communicate to the outide world where the bad guys are, and stop them before they can carry out their plan of destruction.

