United 93

 On September, 11th 2001, two American Airlines and two United Airlines domestic U.S. flights are hijacked by terrorists. After the collision of two planes against the World Trade Center and one against the Pentagon, the passengers and crew of United Flight 93 decide to struggle against the four terrorist to take back the control of the airplane. Emotionally-packed and moving fact-based story about the passengers aboard doomed flight United 93 that was the fourth terrorist attack plane on September 11, 2001. The passengers on the flight, as a result of a delay on takeoff that placed them behind the planned attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, are able to learn of the attacks and discern that this is no mere high-jacking. While the real events that caused the ultimate crash of the plane can never be known, the events depicted would appear to be as might be expected. The scariest part of the film is the unpreparedness of the FAA and the military in dealing with the situation, which is also well-depicted here. Four young Arabians prepared themselves physical and spiritually in order to hijack flight United 93, the night before the fatal 11-S-2001. Same day, other three planes were hijacked as well and reached their targets World Trade Center and The Pentagon. British director Paul Greengrass gives a close version about what could possible happened inside the plane, basing upon the last recordings from the pilot cabin and the telephone calls made by the passengers to their beloveds. The movie shows how the passengers tried to subdue the terrorists, one of them with a bomb tied to his waist, once they had killed both pilots and one of the passengers. Meanwhile, we see the prevailing crisis in the Air Traffic Control, trying to deal with a situation which leads to close all the country's aerial space. Despite the courage of the passengers, the United Airlines' plane, with an original route to San Francisco, crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, without reaching its target, located in Washington D.C. September 11, 2001. The nation was under attack by suicide hijackers, who hit Three famous buildings. The fourth plane United 93 was a story of 40 passengers who were strangers. Who sat through terrifying event. But found courage, rebelled and become hero's. And stood united.

