Unmasked

 Roger Lewis, publisher of a vicious scandal sheet, is in the habit of tricking wealthy, gullible women into investing in his ventures. His latest conquest is a shapely ex-showgirl, Doris King, the wife of Harry Jackson, once a top-flight producer. Jackson has lost all his money, but Doris still has her jewels, and she wants to divorce her husband and marry Lewis, who has no intentions of marrying her once he gets his hands on her (money) jewels. Jackson, concerned about Doris' happiness and wanting to prevent her from ruining her life, takes the jewels. Then he becomes involved in a fight with Lewis, who takes his revenge by killing Doris and pinning suspicion on Jackson. Jackson goes into hiding and falls prey to a small-time crook, "Biggie" Wolfe, who is secretly in the pay of Lewis. Wolfe wants to sell the jewelry and keep the proceeds for himself, telling Jackson the money will serve to get him the services of a good lawyer, but Lewis wants Jackson found with the jewels on him, and he orders "Biggie" to return them. MEABWHILE, Jackson's daughter, Linda, instigates a police search for her father and Detective Lt. Jim Webster and his assistant Newcombe bring so much pressure on Jackson that he commits suicide. This lets "Biggie" off the hook reference returning the jewels and he looks up gangster Johnny Rocco, who does business at the place of an old Long Island sea-dog, "Pop" Swenson, and Rocco offers to buy the jewels IF "Biggie" will arrange a border-crossing for his brother Mort, who is set to break out of the state penitentiary. Lewis wrings this information out of "Biggie" and takes it to District Attorney George Richards, who warns the prison officials and Mort is killed in the attempted jail break. Rocco learns the source of the leak, is somewhat miffed at "Big-Mouth Biggie", takes him for a ride, comes back alone and hatches a plot to get Lewis. The editor of a sleazy tabloid newspaper has been borrowing money from his lover, the wife of a rich theatrical producer, and promises to marry her when she gets a divorce. However, the husband refuses to grant her a divorce, and takes back all the money and jewelry he has given her. The editor sees her husband leaving her apartment and, seeing his opportunity, kills her, takes all his IOUs (and the jewelry) and frames the husband for the murder.

