Uno scampolo di paradiso

 Settimo Torinese. An old building surveyor talks about the houses of the first immigrants, who came from the Veneto and wanted a detached house, and the apartment complexes of the immigrants of the 1960s, who came from southern Italy with their cardboard suitcases. Even the old parish priest talks about the transformations in the city, the hopes of the young people, his astonishment at a world he no longer recognizes. Story leads to story from the story of the engineer who built one of Europe's largest purification plants to the infinite stories of yesterday and today that intermingle in one of the many suburbs. "I have always lived in the suburbs. When I was small I went to a school in prefabricated apartments, the immigrants lived in houses that were in ruins and the traffic was congested. Over the past twenty years, thousands of apartments have been built, instead of the old factories there are museums and media libraries. The main street has become the thoroughfare of thousands of people, the new neighborhoods don't look so run-down anymore, the people say hello to one another, they chat. Maybe we have cut a scrap of paradise for ourselves in this city." A town like Settimo had everything is needed to become one suburb to put to fire and the sword. But here things turned out to be different. Why? An elderly surveyor, one of those who actually built the Italy of today, tells his houses. Those for the first immigrants coming from Veneto ( the region of Venice) themselves during the week-end. The buildings for the immigration wave during the sixties, mostly composed by people coming from the south with their cardboard suitcases. The surveyor's story is interlaced with the one of the old priest, born in 1910, who tells us about those immigrations that during the times have made the nowadays city contemporary fears, his amazement facing this world he has seen growing up, but that now he doesn't recognise anymore. Every story leads to another the one of the engineer who built one of the biggest purification plant in Europe, right here in Settimo Torinese, and the one of the children he tries to explain the reason why we need it to. The Easter Monday at the Fluvial Park, born thanks to the fact that the engineer purifies the big river's waters...and then the brand new meeting point find others stories farmer who raises one-hundreds and twenty cows in the very heart of the industrial suburb. And then the music teacher who founded the "Sette Torri" chorus, keen on sacred polyphony, who teaches to a young musician, bass guitar player in a pop-punk band which lives his big moment at the San Remo Festival... All this stories, like parts of a mosaic, compose the answer to a question that Marco Paolini, Natalino Balasso, Laura Curino, Moni Ovadia and Lucilla Giagnoni ask Gabriele Vacis, director of the movie keep living in this suburb?

