Unsettled

 When the Israeli government announces that it will withdraw from the Gaza Strip, it means lifeguards Lior, 21, and Meir, 27, will be forced to leave their home - Gaza's Palm Beach - forever. They and their surf posse could be characters on MTV's The Real World, but in the blink of an eye it becomes obvious that the danger is all too real. For Neta, 20, a religious filmmaker, the pullout plan sets off a desperate struggle to convince Israelis and the world that the withdrawal is a crime against God. Soldiers Yuval, 21, and Tamar, 20, must prepare for a mission against other Israelis, putting aside their own emotions to face angry protestors and the prospect of attacks. Ye'ela, 21, joins a cross-country tour in support of the withdrawal, even as she mourns a sister killed by Palestinian terrorists. For young Israelis, the summer of 2005 will change the meaning - and for some the very location - of home. UNSETTLED Summer 2005 Israel's largest military operation in a generation is a mission against its own citizens. When the Israeli government decides to end its 38-year occupation of the Gaza Strip, uprooting 8,000 Israeli residents and returning control to the 1.3 million Palestinians who live there, young soldiers and settlers suddenly find themselves on opposite sides of one of the most bitter conflicts in their nation's history. At 21, Lior's army career is already over, ended by a gunshot wound he suffered when his base was attacked. Now a guitar-playing lifeguard, Lior is surfing his last few waves on Gaza's "Palm Beach," awaiting eviction by the same government that encouraged his family to make a home there. Neither Yuval nor Tamar, both 20 year-old soldiers, has ever seen combat - nor has either ever visited the embattled Jewish settlements they have been ordered to evacuate by force. In a matter of weeks they will face thousands of angry residents who refuse to leave their homes, along with the ever-present threat of terror attacks from outside the settlements. 21-year-old Ye'ela is crossing the country trying to raise public support for returning land to Palestinians, even as she mourns a sister murdered by a Palestinian suicide bomber. Neta, 20, lives in Netzarim, a settlement so vulnerable to attacks that she can only reach her home in an armored vehicle. A young religious filmmaker, Neta hopes to convince the Israeli army, and the world, that the withdrawal is a crime against God - but the same army she is opposing is the one that has protected her home throughout her life. Rarely in a democracy does an army deploy on its own soil; rarely do young people grapple with such wrenching conflict within their society, making decisions that can trigger bloodshed or reconciliation. UNSETTLED is a unique film about the roles of religion and democracy, soldiers and civilians, and the passionate divisions in a nation that has never known peace. For young Israelis, the summer of 2005 will change the meaning - and for some the very location - of home. Told in their words and from their perspectives, UNSETTLED is about being young and on the front lines of a conflict where the lines are blurred, in a society where the first battle for peace is fought at home.

