Until Next Time

 A woman's seductive journey in search of her one true love may leave her more hopeless and desperate than ever. Gabriella has created a sensual world to replace her lost love, Anthony, but when her methods place her in danger she's forced to choose between reality or joining Anthony in spirit. Gabriella and Anthony had a beautiful relationship. They shared a love that was so spiritual, inspiring and often unexplained even to them. It was a love affair that others only dreamed off. Then Anthony was abruptly shipped off to war. After months of writing letters back and forth, Anthony's letters suddenly stopped. A short time later Gabriella received news that Anthony had been killed during the war like so many other soldiers. Heartbroken and lost, Gabriella retreated to the home she shared with Anthony. The memories of their love affair pacified her at first but quickly became painful reminders of the love she'd never have again. She became a recluse, often unable to simply get out of bed. Her life as she knew it was over but she was desperate to find that love again. Anthony had always told Gabriella that their spirits were connected and that simple notion launches Gabriella's quest to "find" Anthony's spirit. She begins a journey into a world she believes only Anthony would understand. It becomes a journey of sensuality, experimentation and seduction. And it never leaves her bedroom. Gabriella's quest to reunite with Anthony's spirit fills her with hope as she forges relationships with a cadence of mail visitors. Word spreads of Gabriella's actions and the tight knit neighborhood begins to rally against her. With no success in finding Anthony's spirit Gabriella becomes more desperate and her interactions with her male visitors escalates to a physical altercation. Gabriella loses all expectation of finding her one true reason for living community infuriated with her provocative behavior Gabriella is confronted by the neighborhood's matriarch, Mrs. Collins. Everything in Gabriella's life is lost, her one true love, her home, and all sense of hope. However, instead of simple criticism, Mrs. Collins offers understanding, compassion and ultimately a chance to truly live. Now Gabriella must reconcile her lost love with her own reasons for living. And there is only one person who can help her his world or will she choose to truly live in hers.

