Urban Playground

 The Miseducation of Mitchell is a gritty, inner-city drama that covers one day in the life of Mitchell, a quiet ten-year-old boy who lives with his crack-head mother (Nayomi) in a roach infested downtown L.A. motel. While Mitchell gets ready for school, his mother and her friend (Lisa) plan a murder, business as usual. Mitchell misses the bus and starts walking to school. He has to walk through some of the worst areas in L.A. He is almost to school when a red neck attacks him. Chris, an angry drug dealer, steps in and saves Mitchell. He tells Mitchell that he is now in debt. Chris takes Mitchell to an abandoned rooftop and threatens him and his mother. Mitchell's first job is a drug deal. He goes to a small room downtown, where he finds some rich Asian teenager punks who are slumming it in their own little kick pad. He sells them the drugs, they teach him how to smoke a joint. He returns to Chris who then sends him with the money he got from the drugs, to an old racist drunk gunrunner named Harry, to buy a gun. Harry is watching over his dying wife and waiting for the gun to arrive. There is a knock on the door and Harry forces Mitchell to 'wait' in the closet, and not to make a sound. Mitchell listens to a chilling conversation as he realizes Harry's friend is the red neck who tried to attack him earlier. Mitchell takes the gun to T-mon, a pimp who lives in a modern age opium den gun, while T-mon tries to get the trick right. There is a knock at the door and Mitchell hears his mother asking for T-mon. Mitchell hides. Nayomi and Lisa walk in, and pick up the gun that Mitchell just dropped off and leave. Nayomi and Lisa go to do the hit but everything goes terribly wrong. Everyone involved starts getting killed, with Mitchell being the next in line. The story of Mitchell, a ten-year-old African American who lives with his mom in a crack-infested hotel in downtown L.A. Mitchell misses the school bus one day and quickly becomes the property of Chris; a suicidal drug dealer who might be losing his mind. Chris forces Mitchell to deliver guns and drugs while he hangs out on a rooftop and freaks out all day. The story chronicles eight hours of Mitchell's journey through the shady, deadly core of downtown Los Angeles, while his crack head mother and her associate plan a brutal murder^Å but they have to get a gun. Mitchell's journey takes him to a small downtown hovel where colorful Asian kids play with Nerf guns and buy E tabs with their rich parents' money. Then, he must take the money from the E sale to the Industrial district where a drunken old gun runner makes him hide in the closet when he gets a visitor then he takes the gun to a modern day opium den where T-mon, a spaced out pimp, cannot get a card trick right. While Mitchell is there, his mother shows up to get the gun. Then Mitchell's life really starts to get difficult. This gritty urban drama focuses on the victimization of a child by the desperate inhabitants of his community. Mitchell is a ten-year-old boy getting ready for school, listening to his mother (Nayomi) and her sleazy associate (Lisa) planning a murder. Mitchell misses the bus and is nabbed by a psychotic drug dealer (Chris) who terrorizes Mitchell into running drugs and money. Characters appear, disappear and reappear, weaving a sinister village raising an innocent child. Hand-held cameras follow Mitchell through the most critical day of his development, capturing the rich murals and graffiti art of downtown L.A. Mitchell's misadventure in crime intersects with his mothers' in a murder that goes all wrong. Everyone involved starts going down with Mitchell being the next in line.

