Usher's Legacy

 With sex, violence, terror, suspicion, intrigue and secrets added to the mix, this interpretation of Poe's classic tale, The Fall of the House of Usher, promises to remain faithful to the original story, more faithful than recent adaptations, and not seen since the superb AIP, Roger Corman version from 1960 starring Vincent Price and Myrna Fahey. It adheres to essential story lines with minor alterations as opposed to major plot line overhauls, like so many adaptations, keeping the original story intact but by adding to the story rather than changing it. Roderick and Madeline (Maddy) Usher become Roderick and Matthew (Matty) Usher with a childhood friend coming to care for the ailing Usher boys. Both are prisoners to their circumstances and to the decaying family house to which they are strangely bound. The two brothers suffer from familial maladies that have plagued the Ushers for many generations; hypersensitivity, narcolepsy, hemorrhaging, catalepsy, insanity and eventually a youthful death. Sitting on this emotional, mental powder keg is not bad enough, for further conflict arises when two outsiders come into their dark domain, hustlers from Matthew's past outside of the house. Just like in the original story Roderick proves his love and lengths that he is willing to go to protect his brother. Mystery, madness and a lot of blood is let, to keep Matthew safe at all costs. Roderick and Matthew's childhood friend Kieth soon arrives after, to help care for the failing brothers but soon finds himself powerless to offer any comfort or aid to his sick and dying friends. Further complicating the matter is the arrival of the second outsider, looking for the first. Very soon some family secrets are revealed, and further questions arise, while terror visits and the Usher madness is raised to further levels of evil. Roderick's madness deepens to the breaking point and Kieth is witness to the full horror of what the Usher Legacy really is as truths are finally revealed, as the dead rise from the grave, and the madness in the House of Usher goes insane and totally out of control.

