USS Seaviper

 German u-boat U-234 from the Port of Kiel are trading cargo with the Japanese and USS Seaviper must locate and stop this dangerous exchange. The Captain of USS Seaviper must go ashore to reconnaissance the island near Sumatra, but the sub is left in the hands of office Cutter after the Exec officer is injured in battle. The conflict between officer Cutter and the Chief of the boat puts the submarine in jeopardy. Seaviper trapped below the surface, low oxygen, a destroyer above hunting them above and damage to the boat leave survival in question. They must fight the Japanese destroyer and get this vital information about U-235 back to Naval headquarters. September, 1944. Fresh from liberty on the island of Hawaii, Horatio Culpepper, Captain of the U.S.S. SEAVIPER - one of the Navy's wolf pack submarines, receives an order from Vice Admiral Stallerman, along with top-secret information from President Roosevelt, to rescue a downed-American airplane near Sumatra. The downed pilot, an American Navy airman, is rescued with two escaped prisoners-of-war (POW) from a nearby island. But the Japanese and Germans are also discovered to be on this island together, and the submarine's landing party needs to separate. They discover that the Germans have converted a mine laying U-234 into a long-range submarine. And that the Germans have transported a deadly cargo across the Pacific to deliver to the Japanese. Why then is this cargo so important? Forced to return to the boat while the Captain stays behind, the Chief Petty Officer, Keenan, realizes that he must deal with unexpected changes in command; the Executive Officer, Roitman, suffers a head injury during a depth charge attack and is relieved of duty, and his rival, Officer Cutter, rises to power. A stuck torpedo, a flooded compartment, and structural damage to the boat from a Japanese destroyer all become life-threatening, and the boat's survival is questioned. Under the direct order from the boat's Captain to maintain position and meet the landing party at its scheduled rendezvous, the Chief finds himself in a power struggle against Cutter's defiance of the Captain's direct order. With only enough high-compressed air to get the boat to 100 feet, low oxygen, and a Japanese destroyer in-waiting, will SEAVIPER be able to return to the surface? Can SEAVIPER abort the enemy's plan before it's too late?

