Uttarayan

 Uttarayan is a highly captivating adaptation of Jaywant Dalvi's Marathi play, "Durgi" . Raghuveer , a widower in his 50s has come to live with his computer engineer son Sanjay . He meets his childhood friend Babu Borkar and during their conversations they reminisce about Kusumavati a.k.a. Durgi , Raghu's first love . Raghu finds out Durgi's address and goes to meet her . Durgi is lonely after her marriage fell apart because her husband was a drunkard and a womanizer . Raghu and Durgi resume their old friendship and slowly a strong bond develops between them . Raghu thinks about asking Durgi whether she wants to marry him . But will Raghu gather enough courage to ask her? Will Durgi accept a proposal at such an old age? And finally , will Raghu's son approve of the marriage? Based on Jaywant Dalvi's Marathi Play "Durgi", the film Uttarayan deals in a highly captivating way with the concept of falling in love again in a high age. We watch as Raghuveer (Shivaji Satam) goes back to his birthplace Mumbai, where he will stay with his son Sanjay (Akshay Pendse) and take things a bit easier, after he suffered from a heart attack. In Mumbai he meets his old friend Babu Borkar (Vijoo Khote). The two of them recall the memories of their past and happen to talk about Durgi (Neena Kulkami), Raghu's first love. The experience of married life left its mark on both of them, Raghu as well as Durgi. Raghu is a widower since 14 years and Durgi left her husband, who turned out to be a drunkard. After meeting again after a very long time, the two achieve what they couldn't have realized in their earlier days situation where Raghu asks Durgi if she wants to marry him. One man who lives in India, falls in love with a woman named Durgi. Both want to get married, but both end up getting married to other people. Durgi's marriage does not last very long, and she gets divorced. She now lives alone. While the man, whose name is Raghuveer, also gets married. His wife gives birth to a son. Then she dies. Now both Raghuveer and Durgi have become aged. Raghuveer meets with Durgi and they talk about old times. It is during this meeting that Raghuveer asks her to marry him. Will she accept?

