Veer-Zaara

 Veer Pratap Singh (Shah Rukh Khan) is an officer and pilot in the Indian Air Force who one day meets a beautiful Pakistani heiress, Zaara Hayaat Khan (Preity Zinta), as she travels to a small Indian village to scatter the ashes of one of her family's loyal servants. Veer has family in the village, and while most Indians show no affection for Pakistanis, his aunt and uncle are willing to take Zaara in for the night. It isn't long before Veer finds himself falling for her; however, Veer learns that Zaara is engaged to another man, Raza (Manoj Bajpai), a cruel and humorless Pakistani. A friend of Zaara contacts Veer and tells him that Zaara wants out of her engagement and has strong feelings for him, but when he comes to her rescue, matters take a turn for the worse and Veer winds up in jail. Twenty years later, Veer is still behind bars, and finds that his case is being given a new trial, but while he has a new chance at freedom, he discovers his lawyer will be going up against a state attorney who has never lost a case. Squadron Leader Veer Pratap Singh is a rescue pilot with the Indian Air Force, who risks his own life to save the lives of others. One day, on duty, he comes across a stranded girl from Pakistan, Zaara. Zaara, a carefree, sprightly girl has come to India to fulfill her surrogate grandmother's dying wish. She meets with a bus accident leaving her stranded in a foreign land. Veer saves her life... and his life is never the same again... Twenty-two years later, Saamiya Siddiqui, a Pakistani lawyer on her first case, finds herself face-to-face with an aging Veer Pratap Singh. He has languished in a Pakistan jail cell for 22 years and has not spoken to anyone all these years - and no one knows why. Her mission is to discover the truth about Veer and see to it that justice is served. And thus starts her journey to unveil the truth... the story of Veer and his life... Why has Veer been silent for 22 years? Why is he in a jail in Pakistan? Where is Zaara? What happened to her? God has written the destinies of Veer and Zaara, such that they can never be joined together. Saamiya has come to change that... to join Veer and Zaara together... forever... Appalled at Human Rights abuses in Pakistan, the International Human Rights Commission recruits an aspiring young lawyer, Saamiya Siddiqui, to look into the rights of prisoners, especially those who have been languishing in jails for years without getting a fair trial. One of the cases she is assigned pertains to Prisoner No.786 alias Rajesh Rathore an alleged spy for the Indian army who was caught red-handed spying, and sentenced indefinitely to jail. Saamiya meets with an aged looking individual and finds out that his real name is Veer Pratap Singh. She is told that he has never spoken or said a word for over 22 years, but he responds to her as she calls him by his real name. Veer starts to tell his story to her, and thereafter she realizes that he is not Rajesh Rathore nor a spy - but a Sikh man who loves an Islamic woman, Zaara Haayat Khan; was caught up in a web of deceit and betrayal, made to sign a "confession", and has since been languishing in prison. She has to now prove that Veer has been wrongly jailed, but she faces many obstacles, including the fact that her peers do not approve of a woman doing a "man's job"; and that the country's top prosecutor, Zakir Ahmed, her former employer, is himself taking an interest in this case. Saamiya has her work cut for her, for she has to prove that it is not Rajesh Rathore who is imprisoned, but Veer Pratap Singh. All she can find out is that Veer Pratap Singh was killed in a bus accident 22 years ago. So who exactly is Rajesh Rathore? And why didn't Zaara come out in his defense?

