Vera, the Gypsy Girl

 Vera, the gypsy girl, is driven from the couch of her dying mother by the tyrant king of her tribe, and is forced to sell baskets along the country road to satisfy his mercenary and grasping nature. While pursuing her task along a country lane, Vera encounters a scoundrel who insults her. A young farmer happening by protects her, chastises the scoundrel and, pitying her, buys one of her baskets and sends her on her way. After an unsuccessful day, Vera returns to the camp of her people in time to witness the death of her mother. The gypsy king now proposes marriage. Vera refuses and the king threatens force. Vera runs away from her tribe. Alone and exhausted, she stops in a field and sinks beside a corn stack. All night long she lies there and in the morning the young farmer who befriended her finds her sleeping. He takes her to his people and the gypsy girl begins a new life in the midst of civilization. Her love for the young farmer grows stronger day by day and he unconsciously nurtures it with his brotherly devotion. A harvest picnic is given by the belle of the district, and the young farmer is chosen as the belle's escort. In a paroxysm of jealousy the gypsy girl dons her old costume and goes back to join her people. The news of the gypsy's departure awakens in the young farmer the knowledge of his love for Vera. A searching party is organized and a search for the girl begins. In the meantime Vera has gone back to the gypsy camp. The king denounces her for her unfaithfulness, and under the curse of her people she is driven away. Driven to despair by her loneliness and sorrow, she is about to end her life with a dirk knife her mother had left her, when she discovers that spot she has selected for the deed is a shrine. The sight of the crucifix brings the realization of her cowardice, and she bows before the image, repentant. The young farmer, driven to desperation in his search for the girl he now knows he loves, and tearing breathlessly through the woods, finds Vera before the shrine. He tells her of his love and in his embrace the little gypsy girl finds peace and happiness.

