Vicky Cristina Barcelona

 Sexually adventurous Cristina and her friend Vicky, who is bright but cautious, holiday in Barcelona where they meet the celebrated and wholly seductive painter, Juan Antonio. Vicky is not about to dive into a sexual adventure being committed to her forthcoming marriage. But Cristina is immediately captivated by Juan Antonio's free spirit and his romantic allure is enhanced when she hears the delicious details of his divorce from fellow artist, the tempestuous Maria Elena. The mysteries of the heart. Two children of privilege, friends alike except in how they see love, summer in Barcelona. Vicky is a grad student in Catalan studies, engaged to a safe man; Cristina is finding herself, knowing that safety is not what she wants. Juan Antonio, an artist rumored to have a violent marriage behind him, invites them to spend a weekend with him. They accept. As the summer goes on, their time with Juan Antonio challenges Vicky's assumptions about who she is and suggests to Christina that she may have found herself. Into the mix come Juan Antonio's volatile ex-wife and Vicky's reliable fiancE. Amidst the passion of Barcelona, can there be resolution? New York friends Vicky and Cristina are spending the summer in Barcelona. One of their differences in life is the type of man to who they are attracted. For Cristina, she feels that being hurt in the search for love - which usually means being attracted to dangerous men - is what is required to find that true passion. Vicky, on the other hand, needs a certain grounding in love, which usually equates itself to being attracted to stable, safe men. Vicky is engaged to stable, safe Doug, the two who plan to get married in the fall after Vicky's return to New York. At an art showing in Barcelona, Cristina is immediately attracted to Juan Antonio, an artist she sees across the room. That attraction is strengthened when he later approaches Vicky and Cristina together, proposing they go away together to Oviedo for the weekend, which would include him having sex with both. Despite no guarantees of sex, Cristina wants to go, with a reluctant Vicky, who is incredulous to Juan Antonio's offer, tagging along. When Vicky is forced to spend some extended time alone with Juan Antonio that weekend, she finds that she too is beginning to have strong romantic feelings for him, which she doesn't tell Cristina. Vicky has to figure out what to do about her feelings, especially as Doug suggests coming to Barcelona himself so that they can get married there, and as Judy, the friend with who Vicky and Cristina are staying, makes a confession. Conversely, Cristina's pursuit of romance with Juan Antonio is complicated by the arrival of Maria Elena, Juan Antonio's artist ex-wife, whose relationship with Juan Antonio was characterized by extreme passion which often crossed the line into violence. Conventional Vicky, who is engaged to Doug, travels to Barcelona to spend her summer holidays at the home of their parent's friends, Judy and Mark Nash, with her unconventional and open-minded friend, Cristina. While in a restaurant, the divorced painter Juan Antonio Gonzalo flirts and invites them to travel to Oviedo with him, and also to go to bed with him. The reluctant Vicky does not accept the invitation but Cristina agrees. Once in Oviedo, Cristina develops an ulcer so Vicky goes sightseeing alone with Juan Antonio. Vicky eventually falls in love with Juan Antonio and has sex with him. However, back in Barcelona, she does not say anything to her friend and Cristina moves into Juan Antonio's house, while Vicky marries Doug. When the unstable former wife of Juan Antonio, Maria Elena, overdoses, the painter brings her to his house and their troubled relationship harmonizes with the presence of Cristina.

