Vijaypath

 The family of Justice Saxena is extremely happy until his younger brother Inspector Rajesh Saxena (Suresh Oberoi) arrests a notorious gangster, Bhawani Singh. Justice Saxena sentences Bhawani Singh to death. Bhawani Singh's brother, Dilawar Singh (Danny Denzongpa), vows to avenge his brother and he kills the judge as well as his driver Shanker. Dilawar Singh also tries to kill their sons. Driver Shanker's son, Karan (Ajay Devgan) loses his eyesight while saving Justice Saxena's son Babloo. Justice Saxena's wife, the two children and Rajesh Saxena leave the city. Dilawar Singh finds them and kills the Judge's wife and throws Babloo out of the running train. Before dying, Babloo donates his eyes to Karan. Karan vows that he will not remove his goggles till he confronts Dilawar Singh. The Saxena family consists of Judge Saxena, his wife, and their school-going son, Babloo, their chauffeur, Shankar, and his son, Karan, as well the Judge's Police Inspector brother, Rajesh. The region is being terrorized by a local goon by the name of Bhavani Singh, Rajesh tracks him down, arrests him, and in the process becomes crippled. Bhavani is tried in Saxena's Court, is found guilty, sentenced to be hanged, and the sentence is carried out. Bhavani's brother, Dilawar, swears to look after his son, Shakti, as well as avenge his death. He sets upon this task almost immediately, killing Judge Saxena, then Shankar, Karan gets injured and loses his vision. The rest of the Saxena family flee by train, but Dilawar catches up, kills Mrs. Saxena, and critically injures Babloo. Babloo passes away and his eyes are used to restore Karan's vision. The two re-locate to try and re-build their lives, Rajesh is no longer with the Police, and Karan swears to wear dark glasses even at night until he finally kills Dilawar. Years later Karan has grown up, is in love with Mohini, still wears dark glasses, and is on the lookout for Dilawar. In the meantime, Dilawar, now an established and influential citizen-cum-gangster and his nephew, Shakti, are also on the active lookout for Rajesh and Karan - and this time they will ensure the end of the last of the Saxenas as well as Karan.

