Vino santo

 Georg and Serafina, the parents of 23-year-old Gioia ("Joe"), separated ten years previously when Georg was not prepared to give up his business consultancy practice in Vienna and follow his wife after her brother's death to Italy, where she has since run the family wine estate together with her father ("Nonno"). Joe, who has always done her best to fulfill others' expectations, is studying tax law to please her father, in order to become a partner in his firm. She is also engaged to be married to his future junior partner Harry # much to the displeasure of Harry's sister Steffi, who is Joe's best friend. Steffi considers her brother to be a boring, calculating individual, who doesn't really love Joe at all. She is therefore delighted when Joe falls head over heels in love in a wine-bar one evening with a young wine expert named Max. Joe is in seventh heaven, but falls to the ground with a bump when Max suddenly asks her to come to Italy with him because he wants to train as a vintner there. Joe doesn't have the courage to simply say goodbye to her entire life until now, and she decides to remain in Vienna. Shortly afterwards Serafina calls from Italy to tell Georg and Joe about the dearest wish of her father, who has just suffered a heart attack estate to celebrate the grandparents' Golden Wedding anniversary # and Joe's fiancE and Georg's girlfriend Helene, who has long wanted him to marry her, are also invited. At the gathering Nonno announces to the startled Joe that he wants to hand over the running of the estate to her. Once gain she feels that decisions affecting her are being made over her head giving her a chance to make up her mind for herself about what she really wants to do. Her confusion reaches its peak when she "catches" Max # who happens to be doing his training course at this very wine estate # in an ambiguous situation with her mother. At the big family gathering everything turns out for the best, however and decides to take over the running of the wine estate with Max. Georg and Serafina confess they have fallen in love with each other again, and Nonno # who has now achieved exactly what he wanted # closes his eyes for ever, deeply satisfied at last.

