Visions of Violence

 'Visions of Violence' is at once a fascinating time capsule of life in the 1990's as well the ultimate video diary. Tracing a period from 1992-98, we get an insight into what being a teen/early 20-something was really like. In a non-traditional, experimental way, the vignettes unspool to form the narrative as a cohesive whole. And that whole makes up the world which was one filled with hanging out, vandalism, working (if you'd call it that), getting arrested, a riot, girls, and much more. We're seeing reality from a whole new perspective. The film opens in New Britain, Connecticut - 1992. Fresh out of high school, 17-year-old Chris picks up a video camera and periodically documents his life, as well as that of his friends. He starts to string together a video diary. We're introduced to some of Chris' friends who include Jeff, Art, Jeff B., and Jake. Life is all fun and games as it consists of vandalism. 1993. Addictions such as gambling move in. Jake engages in a fight, with a neighborhood tough named 'Kooz,' over an unpaid debt. We meet more of the people who make up Chris' world During the summer, a cop roughs up a local teenager, which sends shock waves through the community resulting in a riot. Sights and sounds from the riot are recorded. An ice cream bar customer lends his thoughts on why the riot occurred. 1994. Life start to change for everyone as Chris, Jeff, and Art get arrested one night. This event causes Chris to start focusing on what matters. And what matters? Film school. Sadly, Chris cannot afford film school and sets the camera down for a while. Jeff and the others lose themselves in various interests. 1995. Chris accompanies Ken and Jeff who go to get a guy named Andy. Andy's accused of date raping a girl they all know. Chris captures the end result 'payback' as it's referred to. Jeff then hangs out at the ice cream bar with Ken and Mike P. An altercation breaks out when Jeff has words with a customer. 1996. Chris, no longer working at the ice cream bar, works down the street at a video store. The ice cream bar has changed, and a different element has moved in for some an unpaid gambling debt. Kooz gets 90 days in jail. Chris, back at the ice cream place, clears the air with Andy and a New Jersey Trip, girls, and a rather interesting security guard round out the year. 1998. New guy at the ice cream bar, Randy, talks with Jeff about mugging someone for some fast cash while the 2 drink liquor and do 'whip-its.' We're then introduced to Dave, Danny, and Jay. Dave has trouble with a girl named Barbara while Chris tries to put together a fake documentary on vandals. This doesn't work and sends Chris back to reality as he films Dave and company doing fake interviews with people. Chris and Dave head for a party and discuss the people that will be there. A week later, the 2 are back on the streets discussing the aftermath of the party which includes certain liaisons with girls. Dave sums up the whole video diary by saying, 'we had fun, you know we did.'

