Vivre pour vivre

 Robert Colomb, a famous TV newscaster, is married to Catherine, but is continually unfaithful. He is about to replace his current mistress, Mireille, with Jacqueline when he meets, and becomes fascinated with Candice. He takes her along on an assignment in Kenya and later establishes an "arrangement" with her in Amsterdam. When he tells Catherine about the affair, she is silent. He is assigned to Viet Nam, tells Candice their affair is over and, to his astonishment, discovers that is more than acceptable to her as she as tired of him. Returning from a Vietnamese prison he decides to return also to Catherine, but discovers she has made a new life for herself. He ponders whether he should break into her life again, rekindle their old love or just disappear from her life. While he is pondering, Catherine---a big hand for the little lady---makes the decision for this selfish and conceited ass. In Paris, the famous forty year-old journalist Robert Colomb is married with Catherine but he is an unfaithful husband. After a love affair with the gorgeous actress Mireille, Robert meets the twenty-one year-old American model Candice, who has come to Paris for taking photos, in a hotel and feels a great attraction for her. Later, he meets her again by chance in a box fight and they begin a torrid affair. Robert is assigned by the television to interview a group of mercenaries in Congo, and he takes Candice to Nairobi with him and his photographer and friend Michel pretending that they are tourists in a tour. Robert promises Candice to tell his wife about their love affair, but he has no courage to disclose the truth to his wife that proposes him to celebrate his birthday in Amsterdam, where they had traveled in their first trip together. Out of the blue, Candice appears in Amsterdam and in the end Robert tells the truth to Catherine about his double-life and the affair with Candice. Catherine leaves him and Robert moves to Candice's place, but six months later they break their relationship. Candice returns to New York and Robert travels to Vietnam to cover the war, where he is imprisoned by the communists. When he returns to Paris, he misses Catherine, but she has a new life with another man.

