Von Steuben's Continentals

 It's all live-action, in full-color, shot and created digitally, detailing the creation and drill of the Revolutionary War American soldier from the defeats as a militia rabble in 1776 to success after Valley Forge in 1779-1781. It details all of the movements in Baron Von Steuben's "Blue Book" drill manual, as well as detailing the various uniforms, equipment, weapons, camps, marching, soldier life in camp, food and battles of the Continental Soldier. This is a first-of-its kind documentary, using actors and reenactors in authentic uniforms and settings to tell the story of the men of this army. This is the first in a planned 35 DVD "American Soldier Series" detailing the lives times and world of the American fighting men (and women) through history. This hour long documentary, which is the first of a series of episodes on the American soldier throughout history, begins in the Hudson Highlands of New York in 1779. Footage from recent reenactments is spliced with camp scenes of soldiers working on their gear and drilling. The narrator, John Pagano of the 2nd Virginia Regiment and the Corps of Sappers and Miners, explains to viewers that the army of 1779 is much different from the one that first formed in 1775-76. A flashback sequence then takes the audience to August 1776 and the Battle of Long Island. Viewers are placed amongst a party of Americans along the Gowanus Heights as they desperately try to hold their position against the advancing British. The scene is nicely done with a good deal of superb special effects that give a, "Band of Brothers" feel to the footage. The re-enactors in the scene do a good job of acting and convey a sense of real panic when they break and run to the rear. Following the American rout at Long Island, the DVD returns to 1779 and the American camp in the Highlands of New York. Viewers observe a number of camp activities while the narrator summaries the events of 1777-78. Although the focus of the DVD is on Steuben's impact on the army, the filmmakers omit a few significant events that deserve mention. A brief acknowledgment of the Battle of Saratoga is warranted, as is more coverage of the army's sufferings throughout the war. A scene or two of camp life at Valley Forge, preferably filmed on location in the winter, would also add to the presentation and provide the audience with a greater appreciation of the troops and Steuben's contribution to the army. At this point in the film the producers concentrate their focus on the details of Baron Von Steuben's drill. Re-enactors, especially new folks, will find this segment of the film useful as a training manual for Baron Von Steuben's drill. The narrator reads from Steuben's drill manual as footage of the drill is shown. Lessons on loading, firing, and the manual or arms are all demonstrated. There is one factual point that I take issue with and that is the statement that soldiers often drilled eight to ten hours a day. Although I could be wrong about this, I have yet to see any orders that devote such an amount of time to drill. And if such orders do exist, such as perhaps at Valley Forge, they certainly did not extend into the campaign season of the summer and fall. Following the drill segment, the film provides a variety of camp life scenes that I think are very interesting and informative. Viewers get an excellent overview of the life of a soldier in camp, from squeezing into a tent with four other men, to digging and using sinks (latrines). We see what the men ate and how they prepared it, what they wore and how they took care of it, what duties they performed and punishments they suffered, and what they did to relax. Viewers also learn about the role of camp followers in the army. The film concludes with a scene of the storming of Stony Point. Like the Long Island battle scene, this one is very nicely done with quality special effects and drives home the point that the American soldier of 1779 was much different (better) than the soldier of 1776. Viewers will come away from the DVD with a better understanding and appreciation of the life of a continental soldier and the role that Baron Von Stueben's drill played in transforming the troops from rabble to soldiers. Von Steuben's Continentals retails for $25.00. Bonus features include clips of the 225th reenactments of Green Spring and Yorktown as well as trailers from two Civil War feature films, No Retreat from Destiny and Wicked Spring. For more information about the DVD and other projects from LionHeart FilmWorks check out their website

