Vukovar - poslednji rez

 We believe that the historical distance of fifteen years is large enough to allow us to make an important, investigative documentary tied to the most painful point of this region. It is also very important to mention that this is the first Serbian-Croatian co-production about this painful topic, whose wounds have yet to heal, even after fifteen years' time. Reporters and investigators from both sides of the Danube River, located in the middle of Europe, and in whose waters' corpses had floated for nearly a decade, tried to solve the riddle of the true reasons that le up to the great Balkan tragedy. This is not a film made by outside observers or nonchalant journalists. Nor was it made by war dog reporters who are in the Balkans today, tomorrow in the Near East and in Baghdad the day after; some of us were in the middle of the apocalypse of Vukovar while the city was being torn apart. Some were running from Milosevic' regime's attempts to make them soldiers of the Yugoslav National Army and mobilizing them to participate in the foolish operations of destroying Vukovar. Others who were independent and crafty were able to, as people and reporters, spend time on both the Serbian and Croatian sides of the front. We are now, once again, on the same mission, to, with the help of the survivors and available archives, try and put together the pieces of this impossible mosaic. We have created an insider's story about what actually happened in Vukovar. This is the first objective and propaganda-less film, which is neither a Serbian documentary nor a Croatian one. With no intentions of serving any political causes, this film is more interested in serving the purpose of truth. We are all interest in the story of Vukovar, because it is a part of all of our lives. We have tried to comprehend why Vukovar, a rich Slavonian town famous for being a "miniature Yugoslavia," Tito's exemplary town of unity, was the one location to suffer total apocalypse, one comparable to the sacrifice and siege of Stalingrad, and by the extent of destruction, and scenes shown around the world, reminiscent of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

