Vulgar

 A loser with a crummy apartment, an odious mother, and a job that isn't taking him anywhere (kid's clown), gets a new idea. He decides that he's going to be a clown for bachelor parties. He will dress up like a woman clown and play a joke on the groom. After that the real stripper will come out and everyone will have a good laugh. He goes to his first job (changing his clown name from Flappy to Vulgar). When he opens the door he is knocked cold. What follows is a story of violation, fame, blackmail, and revenge. Vulgar is about a man who is a childrens clown but has not been getting much luck lately. He lives in a cheap apartment wich he can't even afford. Bums are constantly sleeping in his run down car and crashing on his lawn.He has a nagging mother who lives in a nursing home, and his best friend is a moocher.One day he comes up with the idea to become a bachelor clown. He figures he can dress up like a woman, enter the party, and everyone will have a good laugh. But, on his first attempt, he is attacked by a twisted man and his deranged sons, who drug him, beat him, and force him to engage in sexual activities with them as they record the incident. As time goes by, he one day get's a call from a past client for a party and agrees to do it. But as he arives, he is shocked to see a man holding his daughter hostige. so he sneaks into the house and saves the girl. Soon he is media popular and is offered his own clown show, Flappy the Clown. But just as he is living the life he has always dreamed of, he recieves a call. The man who had raped him blackmails him by telling him if he does not pay him to keep quiet, he will expose the tapes of their sexual encounter. So he decides to take matters into his own hands. Will Carson is a loser who works as a children's party clown which takes a turn when he saves the life of a little girl from her abusive father which makes him an instant local celebrity. His rise to fame has him making headlines in local newspapers and even getting his own TV children's show as Flappy the Clown. But while Will has seemingly forgoten his past, his past did not forget him as a denerate, low-life psycho-sexual pervert/serial killer and his two dim-witted sons blackmail Will for money to cover up a humiliating sexual assault they did on Will a year earlier.

