Wait Until Dark

 Susie's husband is asked to hold a doll for a woman as they get off an airplane. She disappears. Mike and Carlino are small time hoods who find the woman's body in Susie's apartment, placed there by her partner, Harry Rote. Susie's blindness is the key to them searching the apartment for the doll that contains smuggled drugs. Mike pretends to be an old friend of Susie's husband while her husband is away and together the crooks invent a story of a police investigation of her husband that only the discovery of the now missing doll can save him from. Rote is a killer, and his stalking of Susie becomes more and more obvious as the story unfolds, leaving us with the question, how does a blind woman defend herself? After an airplane trip, a young woman asks Susie's husband, Sam, to keep a doll for her to avoid spoiling the surprise of her daughter's gift. But the real reason is to avoid her partner, Harry Roat, whom she hopes to cheat of the drugs hidden in the doll. Harry discovers her treachery, murders her and leaves the body in Susie's apartment, where he has tracked Sam and the doll. He concocts an elaborate plan, involving Mike and Carlino, small-time hoods, to get Susie, who recently lost her sight in a fire, to reveal the doll's hiding place. They lure Sam away and take advantage of Susie's blindness, posing as an old friend, a police detective, and a father-son pair of eccentrics. Susie eventually catches on and, with the help of her young neighbor, Gloria, shows everyone that she is indeed "a world-class blind lady." When Sam Hendrix carries a doll across the Canada-US border, he sets of a chain of events that will lead to a terrifying ordeal for his blind wife, Susy. The doll was stuffed with heroin and when it cannot be located, its owner, a Mr. Roat, stages a piece of theatre in an attempt to recover it. He arranges for Sam to be away from the house for a day and then has two con men, Mike Talman and a Mr. Carlito, alternately encourage or scare Susy into telling them where the doll is hidden. Talman pretends to be an old friend of Sam's while Carlito pretends to be a police officer. Despite their best efforts they make little headway as Susy has no idea where the doll might be, leading Mr. Roat to take a somewhat more violent approach to getting the information from her. In Montreal, Lisa brings a hand made doll stuffed with heroine to New York. However, in JFK Airport, she sees a stranger waiting for her and she asks the photographer passenger Sam Hendrix to keep the doll for her and she meets the stranger. A couple of days later, the small time crooks Mike Talman and his partner Sergeant Carlino are invited for a mysterious meeting in the apartment of Susy Hendrix. While in the apartment, they find the body of Lisa hidden in a wardrobe. Roat arrives and blackmails them with the fact that their fingerprints are everywhere in the apartment. They have to help him remove Lisa's body but Roat offers them a large amount of money to find the doll. When Susy returns, Mike pretends that he is an old friend, and Carlino and Roat pushes Susy in a sick game, trying to find where the doll might be.

