Wake Up and Dream

 Henry Pecket keeps a land-bound, home-made sloop in the backyard of his boarding house ran by widow Sara March, who is tolerant of the fancied trips around the world taken by her "ancient mariner" boarder. Little Nella Cairn, another boarder, is his constant companion on the sloop's "trips." When her brother, Jeff Cairn , enlists in the Navy, Nella is sent to board with a cousin, but is unhappy and returns to the boarding house. Pecket sends for Jenny, a waitress for Mr. Agrippa at his lunchroom and sweetheart of Jeff. Pecket and Jenny together decide to take care of Nella, when she receives a telegram from the War Department advising that Jeff is missing in action. To console the young girl, Pecket tells her they'll sail out to a wonderful island he knows about where he is sure Jeff can be found. The widow March, incensed about gossip she hears that Pecket is entertaining women guests on his boat, sells it to Mr. Agrippa, who wants to make a hamburger stand out of it. He has a man install wheels on it and plans to tow it away the next day. Pecket, Jenny and Nella have a meeting on the boat, a storm blows up, and since the sails are set, the "Sara March" puts out to "sea,", where it becomes "reefed" in a haystack. A young itinerant dentist, Howard Williams, offers to tow them but runs out of gas just as they reach Dignman's Ferry. He suggests they launch the boat, and all hands, including Williams, who comes in handy when they encounter a scientist in need of dental work, set sail on an enchanted voyage for Pecket's rendezvous island..to find Jeff. Although he has a farmer's draft deferrment, Jeff enlists in the Navy during WWII. He sends his young sister Nella to live with relatives, but she is unhappy there and returns home. She hooks up with Jenny, whom Jeff is in love with, and an old man whose claim to fame is the building of a sloop in his back yard. Jeff is eventually listed as Missing, and while sleeping on the boat a storm comes up and blows the boat (on wheels) away. A traveling dentist helps them out and they eventually launch the boat into a river, and begin a trip that Nella is sure will end up in rescuing her brother.

