Wallflower

 Wallflower, Janey, straight A's and pink retainers, is devastated when her gorgeous stepsister Angelica runs away to find her real father, Aldo. When their mother turns to drink and Janey's own doting, grey father becomes distraught at Aldo's return, Janey's world spirals into tragedy. Janey, a plain, conscientious schoolgirl is thrilled, it's her birthday. Janey's father, grey, dependable Gordon is as excited as Janey. Her mother, neurotic, alcoholic, drama queen, Dreena isn't totally delighted. Her elder daughter, Angelica, has runaway to find her real father, Aldo, Dreena's first husband. The post brings birthday cards and a letter for Dreena. A bittersweet moment as Dreena finds an old photo of her, her ex-husband Aldo and her runaway daughter Angelica as a toddler. Aldo is returning to see Angelica, finally! Janey is horrified to see that Dreena still has feelings for Aldo. Gordon and Dreena fight as Janey gets ready for school. On the way back from school, Janey is attacked by the school bullies. She is stunned to learn that her half-sister Angelica, unable to find her own father, Aldo, has been sleeping rough and has had an affair with a classmate's father. Janey pushes her way out of the gang huddle and races away. As the girls catch-up with her, she is saved by Angelica. Angelica leads her to a cemetery where's she's been sleeping on a bench. An intense, deranged man wanders through the cemetery and terrifies Janey. Angelica protects her again. Angelica is thrilled to see her sister on her birthday. Angelica gives Janey her present and Janey gives her supplies and vodka. Janey's world disintegrates as she sees Angelica's joy at the return of her father, Aldo and the resurrection of 'her' family. Angelica toasts the return of her father with the vodka, Janey yanks the family photo from her and the vodka spills over Angelica and the nylon sleeping bag. Angelica reaches for her cigarette, her match won't light, Janey grabs the match and violently strikes it, fire rages in Janey's eyes as the match falls onto Angelica.

