Warriors of Terra

 A headstrong animal-rights activist group plans a raid on a bio-tech company to stop the cruelty. They discover the true nature of the experiments that are really taking place. As they break into a biotech lab only to have their idealism crushed by the terrifying things they find inside. But when a genetically mutated human with a taste for human flesh gets released, they all struggle to survive! Ali is a teenager who is convinced her emotionally distant scientist father is experimenting on animals in the high security bio-tech facility where he researches cancer cures. Her new boyfriend Chris is a security guard at the labs but reveals to her that he is the inside man for a planned raid by the animal rights activists, Warriors of Terra. Ali immediately wants to help and steals her father's security card. On the night of the attack, Ali meets the rest of the highly organized and technically equipped team and, when she will not part with her father's card and insists on participating in the raid, makes an instant rival of their charismatic and forceful leader, Jade. Inside the labs they find no animals to rescue but the alarm is raised and a heavily armed security response team (SRT) storm in. Cornered, the Warriors descend to an abandoned and dilapidated sector deep below the facility, hotly pursued by the SRT. At surface level above them Ali's father arrives and vainly begs the owner of the lab, Issacs, not to initiate the decontamination routine which will kill everything in the subterranean corridors. Soon both the Warriors and the SRT will discover the true nature of the "experiment" that the scientists are trying to contain. One member of the SRT team stumbles upon a weak naked girl, Maya, a cancer patient whose radical experimental treatment has turned her into a mutant who feeds upon liquefied human organs and who the intruders have inadvertently released her from containment.. She attacks him with tentacles that stretch out from her fingers and tongue. Because her genes have been mutated so much, she can repair herself very quickly and is nearly indestructible, as long as she keeps eating. Both the Warriors and the SRT team are now on the menu. As the decontamination routine ticks down, a terrifying battle for survival unfolds. A group of animal rights activists - Jade, Tim, Fix and the hacker Izzy - invades the complex of Chapel Pritchard to liberate subjects, with the support of the daughter of Dr. Woods, Ali, and her boyfriend and security guard Chris. Dr. Woods is in charge of an unsuccessful experiment for the cure of cancer in the facility, and when they use his access card., the security system is activated. They try to escape using an elevator to the underground laboratory, and when the guards trap them, Izzy opens all the doors of the compound trying to provide a escape route for the group. However, she actually liberates an assassin mutant in the same floor as her friends and the guards.

