Watan Ke Rakhwale

 Arun Prakash lives a middle-class life-style with his babhi and brother who is a jailer, Suraj Prakash. Arun has connections with some elements that are there to eliminate criminal activities; his path leads him to having a close relationship with wealthy Radha who has links with some underworld elements namely high hope of making Radha his bride. These men commit treason usually from the orders of a gangster name Koya Koya Attache, Arun manages to capture Naresh and hand him over to Suraj who holds him in a cell - but an inmate by the name of Mahavir has Naresh killed for the rape and brutal murder of his sister, Vimla. To Arun shock Dr. Narendra Pratap gets killed and Suraj is charged for this murder, must tender his resignation as a jailer and be a prisoner in his own jail - to make matters worse Raj Puri and his associate has sworn to put an end to Arun's life while Suraj is being Penalized for his crime. Radha Pratap lives a wealthy lifestyle with her widowed businessman dad, Raja; her maternal grandma; and paternal uncle, Dr. Narendra, who runs a mental hospital. Shortly after her dad tragically passes away in a car accident, her marriage is arranged with equally wealthy Naresh Puri, the only child of Raj. When the marriage is about to be finalized, a man named Arun interrupts the ceremony, informing them that Radha is already married to him, and produces proof and a witness, Prof. Peter Fernandes. The wedding is canceled amidst chaos as Radha claims that she had never seen Arun, leave alone married him. A few days later, Narendra and Raj ask Radha to sign a divorce petition, which will annul the marriage so that she will be free to marry Naresh, which she does. When the time comes for her to move out, she refuses and admits that she made a mistake and admits having been married Arun, who lives with his Jailer brother, Suraj Prakash and his wife, Laxmi. A few days later, Naresh is arrested by the Police for smuggling, and lodged in a jail, where he is killed by a convict named Mahavir, who had seen Naresh sexually molest his sister, Vimla. Enraged at the death of his son, Raj has his men molest and threaten Laxmi. Shortly thereafter Narendra's body is found, knifed to death. Suraj confesses to this crime, is arrested, tried in court and sentenced to 6 years in the very jail where he used to the Jailor. Raj arranges the abduction of Radha, Laxmi, and Arun and has them confined on an island that is not within the jurisdiction of any country. The questions remain why did Arun claim that Radha is married to him, and why did Suraj confess to killing Narendra, and what is going to be the fate of Raj's victims?

